Yes? If you want to order, do it at the counter.
I'm sorry! It's all rented out today!
Hey soldier-boy, aren't you still on duty?
Welcome to Bar del Sol! Here's to tropical nights!
Welcome. How 'bout our original cocktail, 'Cosmo Candle?'A drink now and then is good for you. It'll relax you a bit. ...If you know when to stop.
Would you like something to drink?
Did you meet the Captain already? He's really the town's representative, so you should really talk with him.
......that's too bad. Please come again.If he keeps up like that, he's gonna collapse someday. Y'know what I mean? I'm talkin' heart attack.
Would you like something to drink?
Cid's had some bad breaks. It's really no one's fault he couldn't go into space.Just bad luck, I guess...
Hey, hey, welcome! You on a trip? Well, just relax and make yourself at home.Nowadays, thanks to tourism, Wutai's able to get by.
Seems like the town got really boisterous since you arrived. Did anything happen?
Congrats! You have just found all six flyers for the "Turtles Paradise"!How wonderful! Now here is your prize, just as we promised!!
Please come again to "Turtles Paradise"! We're looking forward to seeing you!
Would you like something to drink?
Y'know, I heard Rufus rushed back to headquarters in Midgar...
I've heard there's a snow woman, at the Great Glacier, that hates hot springs...But I think it's just a myth to scare off visitors.
I'd like to close down this shop, but we got the regulars to think about... I don't know what to do......
I'm sorry. I've decided to close this place down.All my regular customers were killed by Weapon.Everyone was pretty weird, but I got a lot of memories of them.
How about our original cocktail, 'Lifestream'?You should forget your troubles with a drink. We humans sure are weak creatures...That reminds me. I heard that someone here in Cosmo Canyon is selling some Healing Materia.
You don't feel comfortable here? Then, every time you look in the sky you see Meteor.
First the ground started shaking, then that large star......Yy, you think... It's all over?
Seems like Palmer of Shinra, Inc. ordered soldiers to restore the rocket...
Even though they failed to blow up Meteor with the rocket, the Shinra haven't given up yet...Looks like they're gathering all the weapons from all their bases and are preparing for a final showdown.
They say the remaining members of AVALANCHE broke Shinra's resistance and destroyed the Mako cannon at Midgar.What's going to happen to the world...?
