Hey!! What the, YOU?Anyone talking to me must be a novice.
Don't act so big, amateur. Seein' as how I'm such a warm hearted guy, I'll show ya the ropes.You come back here tomorrow. I got some things I gots ta do.
Hmmph!! Well, I never heard of ya!
Heh heh... He'll forget about it. OH, you!!Get my friend on the second floor to teach ya.
Tourists, huh?There are some things you should know that'll come in handy when you travel around the world......Want me to tell you what they are?
Then let me explain how to use the world map.Well then, what do you want to know?
First of all, press the [L2 button] on the controller to change the camera angle.There are 2 angles to choose from, select the one you like.You can then rotate the angles either way by pressing the [L1 button] and [R1 button].Try different angles until you find the one you like best. It makes the journey a lot more fun!Anything else you'd like to know?
Press the [Start button] once to view the World Map.There is a large and small map. Learn when to use which, and you won't get lost as much.Push the [Start button] twice to change the size of the map, and once more to turn it off.Pretty easy, huh?Anything else you want to ask?
You can ride things by pressing the [SELECT button] and get off by pressing the [cancel button]. This isn't so hard, either!Oh, yes, yes. You can't dash with the World Map on, so make sure not to press the [cancel button] unless you get off.Remember this because Chocobos will run away as soon as you get off them, so be careful.Anything else you want to ask?
Once on the World Map you can access the menu to save your game anywhere. It's a good idea to save frequently!Well then, bon voyage!
Is that so? Well, that's that. Have a nice trip.
Crap! I still don't have enough points.Mmm? You're new here, aren't you? Then, you want an explanation of the Battle Arena?
You fight here and collect battle points. You can then exchange those points for prizes.The Battle Game... even though it's a game you still use all your physical abilities. To participate, go to the front and pay yer GP's.You can fight in up to eight battles. The more you win, the more battle points you get.But, if you lose, you lose all your points. So it's up to you whether or not to fight after each win.They also make it harder by givin' out handicaps.They decide what handicaps there'll be, and you won't know what you're up against until the battle.Oh yeah, once you leave the Battle area, all your battle points will become useless. So watch it.Oh, and one other thing. The maximum points you could get is 65000, no more. So if you get that many you should exchange them for something.
Hmm...So, uh, how've things been since then?
Hmm, pretty good.
Ha ha ha! Well, good luck.
Hmmm...What, you too? With the way things are in the world, It makes you wonder what we're doin' here?Well, it's a little late for me to run around now, so I do what I love, it works best for me.Oh, by the way, did you know? I heard that there's going to be a battle and only the strongest will be allowed to participate.But what do they mean by 'strongest'? If ya ask me I'll say it's 'weapons.'But, there's gotta be a way to measure this too. Mmm, we need another way to measure strength.
