(from above)Hey! Nanaki--! You're home!
Ho Ho Hoooo. I hear that you looked after Nanaki a bit.Nanaki is still a child you see.
Ho Ho Hoooo. Nanaki's tribe has incredible longevity.So you see his 48 years would only be equivalent to say that of a 15 or 16 year old in human reckoning.
He's quiet and very deep. You thought he was an adult?
Ho Ho Hoooo. No Nanaki. You can't stand on your own yet.To do that now would destroy you in the long run.Reaching up into the heavens, threatening to snatch the very stars from the great city of Midgar. You've seen it, haven't you?Well, that's a bad example. Looking up too much makes you lose perspective.When it's time for this planet to die, you'll understand that you know absolutely nothing.
Ho Ho Hoooo. It may be tomorrow, or 100 years from now... But it's not long off.
I hear the cries of the Planet.
The sounds of the stars in the heavens. While this goes on, planets are born, and die.
Ho Ho Hoooo. That was a scream from this planet.Didn't you hear it? As if to say... I hurt, I suffer......
Ho Ho Hoooo. To save the planet? Ho Ho Hoooo!But, then again, I guess it wouldn't hurt to show him.
The whole place has gotten busy all of a sudden.
Don't worry. My machine won't run away. You go and invite your friends.
Here, over here. The door's unlocked, come on in.
Ho Ho Hoooo. That's a machine only I can use.
Ho Ho Hoooo. It looks like you have them all together. Then let's begin.I'll be stand there.
Hmm, yes pretty good. This is my laboratory.All the workings of space are entered into this 3D Holographic System.
Ho Ho Hoooo. Yes, it is something, isn't it?Well, let's get to the subject.Eventually... all humans die. What happens to them after they die?The body decomposes, and returns to the Planet. That much everyone knows. What about their consciousness, their hearts and their souls?The soul too returns to the Planet.And not only those of humans, but everything on this Planet. In fact, all living things in the universe, are the same.The spirits that return to the Planet, merge with one another and roam the Planet.They roam, converge, and divide, becoming a swell, called the 'Lifestream'.Lifestream... In other words, a path of energy of the souls roaming the Planet.'Spirit Energy' is a word that you should never forget.A new life... children are blessed with Spirit energy and are brought into the world.Then, the time comes when they die and once again return to the Planet...Of course there are exceptions, but this is the way of the world.I've digressed, but you'll understand better if you watch this.
Spirit energy makes all things possible, trees, birds, and humans.Not just living things. But Spirit energy makes it possible for Planets to be Planets.What happens if that Spirit energy were to disappear?
......These are the basics of the Study of Planet Life.
Ho Ho Hoooo. Spirit energy is efficient BECAUSE it exists within nature.When Spirit energy is forcefully extracted, and manufactured, it can't accomplish its true purpose.
Everyday Mako reactors suck up Spirit energy, diminishing it.Spirit energy gets compressed in the reactors and processed into Mako energy. All living things are being used up and thrown away.In other words, Mako energy will only destroy the Planet...
...You really can't forgive your father...?
...Come, Nanaki. There's something you should see.
The place may be dangerous.Cloud. Will you and one other person come with us?
Ho Ho HooooAre we all set?
Not ready yet? Tell me when you are ready.
Ho Ho Hoooo. Shall we go?
What are you crazy? It's dangerous in there. I told you that!You want an old man like me should go first? I'll be right behind you.
What is it, you're going back? I'll be waiting here for you when you're ready.I can't leave this door open forever.Good. Then we shall proceed.
Ho Ho Hoooo.Everyone here's a Ghost of the Gi tribe. Killed in a certain battle.
The vengeful spirits of the Gi didn't disappear, and couldn't return to the Lifestream...We still have far to go. Ho Ho Hoooo.
As you can see, this cave leads to the back of Cosmo Canyon.It was unfortunate that the Gi were larger than us. If they attacked through here, we wouldn't have stood a chance.
Let's move on.
This warrior went through the cave all alone.Fighting attackers one after another...
Ho Ho Hoooo... We're almost there.
What is this......?
After death... The ghosts of the Gi... Like stagnant air......This... can't be!!
...Thank you, Cloud. Because of you, we survived.Nanaki, you have grown strong, too.
Now I know that it wasn't a mistake bringing you here...Come, I have something I want to show you. Right over here.
...The warrior who fought against the Gi.He kept them from taking even one step into Cosmo Canyon.But he was never able to return to town...Look, Nanaki. Look at your father, at the warrior, Seto.
Seto continued to fight the Gi tribe here. ...To protect this Canyon.Even after the Gi's poisonous arrows turned his body to stone......Even after they all ran away... Seto, continued to protect us.And he continues to protect us, even now.
You thought that he was a coward and ran away. But he, alone risked his life to protect Cosmo Canyon.That is your father, Seto.
Ho Ho Hoooo... She knew. The two of them made me promise to keep this cave shut.They asked me to seal it myself and not to tell a soul.They said we should forget about this cave.
Cloud... Would you mind leaving the two of us alone?
Nanaki. I want you to continue your journey with Cloud and the others.
Listen, Nanaki.Cloud says they are trying to save the planet.Honestly, I don't think it can be done.For even if they stop every reactor on the planet, it's only going to postpone the inevitable.Even if they stop Sephiroth, everything will perish.But, Nanaki. I've been thinking lately.I've been thinking if there was anything WE could do,as a part of the planet, something to help a planet already in misery...No matter what happens, isn't it important to try?Am I just wishing against fate?I am too old to do anything about it...This year, I'll be 130. Ho Ho Hoooo.That is why, Nanaki, you must go with them! For my sake.
I wanted to show you your real father before you left...I'm so glad that you came back while I was still alive to show you.
Ho Ho Hoooo. Well, I've had a long life.
Nanaki...
That's... Seto's...... Seto......
Cloud. Please look after Nanaki.
Ho Ho Hoooo. Come back whenever you need my knowledge.
Ho Ho Hoooo. You people.Where is Nanaki? I hope he's not bothering you.
Ho Ho Hoooo....no time to be humming now. The planet is nearing imminent death.Where is Cloud? Wasn't he with you?
I see... Cloud has......It's true that there are several places on the planet where Lifestream is gathered.But most of those places are below the surface where humans cannot reach them.There's only one place. An island floating in the Southern Sea...What did you say? I haven't left here in years... No good. I can't remember.In the Southern Seas I think there was an island where Lifestream is.But even if you find Cloud there...Life's dream is a mass of spiritual energy,and one person alone probably couldn't stand against such an incredible spiritual current...
You are using Shinra materia, as a weapon?Materia is highly dense spiritual energy. A shred of the planet's life. It should not be used as a weapon.We must stop using it... or the planet will become weakened.
Ho Ho Hoooo. If you ever are in need of my wisdom, you are always welcome here.
What to do? Have you lost your way? When that happens we each have to take a good long look at ourselves.There's always something in the deepest reaches of our hearts.Something buried, or something forgotten.Remember it... Whatever that is, must certainly be what you are all looking for...
It must be there. Look harder!
Do you see it? What is it that you are searching for?
Hmmm. Perhaps I'll have you take me there.
What's so surprising about that...?Even I want to get out from time to time and see the outside world. I wonder what did it? I haven't felt like this in ages.
Ho Ho Hoooo. Then let's go.
Ho Ho Hoooo. Then we'll put it upstairs. Now, shall we be on our way?I'll teach you how to work the machine. Watch carefully now. You just pull this here...
Ho Ho Hoooo. Is this what you call Huge Materia...?This is really rare Materia, indeed.Materia this rare is certain to have a special consciousness enclosed in it.
Ho Ho Hoooo. Good. Now let's leave.Do you remember how to use the machine down below? If you ever want to see Materia, come here anytime.
Hm, hmm, hmm!.......Smells like machinery.I love this smell.Of course, I also love the smell of nature, too......Hm? Is the deck up there?Then I'll be on the deck just passing the time.I can feel the workings of the planet in the smell of the wind.I also feel the greatness of man's wisdom and the knowledge in the smell of machinery...Well, bye for now.
This is...Yes...... exactly...
...give me a moment.
The knowledge of the Ancients swirling around here is telling me one thing.The planet's in a crisis...A crisis beyond human power or endless time.It says, when the time comes, we must search for 'Holy'.
Holy... the ultimate White Magic. Magic that might stand against Meteor. Perhaps our last hope to save the planet from Meteor.If a soul seeking Holy reaches the planet, it will appear.Ho Ho Hooo.Meteor, Weapon, everything will disappear.Perhaps, even ourselves.
It is up to the planet to decide.What is best for the planet. What is bad for the planet.All that is bad will disappear. That is all.Ho Ho Hooo.I wonder which we humans are?
Speak to the planet.Get the White Materia... This will bond the Planet to humans.Then speak to the planet.If our wish reaches the planet, the White Materia will begin to glow a pale green.
Ho Ho Hooo!Ho Ho Hooo!Ho Ho Hooo!Look at this!
Ancients' writing.
I can't even make it out!!
I'm not an Ancient. I can't read this thing!I may be old, but my eyes aren't completely bad yet. Look closely below the writing.
It was probably written by a scientist who's been here... He probably used all his energy to make out these two words.
I don't know... But, it probably has something to do with our riddle.The riddle... then it must have something to do with Aeris.
Probably...Use these words as clues and go find the key.I'll continue to figure out the Ancients' writing.
When you find the key, or when you can't go any further, come back here.Maybe I'll understand more from the writing and get some new information for you.
Remember, a place (even sunlight can't reach) is where the (key) is...
(even sunlight can't reach)... Hmm... if we're above ground, and sunlight reaches everywhere... Then it's probably not above ground...
A place where sunlight doesn't reach... Right, it must be underwater!
Oh! You've found it!
That Music Box over there. We'll put the key in it.I'll go use the key. You all wait here.And watch closely what happens.Ho Ho Hooo!
Now, go inside. Hope may be inside... Or......
This was just a screen to project an image!Look! Look at the image projected on the screen of the water!
Ho Ho Hooo!! It's pale green!!
Something's getting in its way.
Traveling is wonderful, isn't it?......
Ho Ho...... Hoooo. You......?It's been a while... since I've been out. I think I must have... tired myself out a bit.Ahh...... don't tell Nanaki. He'll only worry...
...Nanaki...? ...you're still...... here?
...listen, Nanaki. I think you may already know.If you have any mission in life, it is not to defend this valley.Look at the withering mountain grass. Listen to the warble of the new born chocobo's.Look always to the eternal flow of time which is far greater than the span of a human life.It will teach you more, than staying here in the valley...What you will see will eventually become a part of life's dream.For my children...... And for your children......So please, Nanaki... Go with Cloud... And with your eyes... your ears...
Ho Ho...... Hoooo. Now, now. Don't look like that. I'm all right.It's a wide world and you must go out and see it... You may even find your life's mate. You never know.
Oh yes... take this along. I think it will look good on you now.Ho Ho......
