Who do you think it is? I didn't recognize the face.
Gil, gil, gil, where's my gil!?
Hey, you can't--! My gil, give it back--!
Gil, gil, gil, where's my gil!?
Hey, you can't--! My gil, give it back--!
...She disappeared... I don't have a clue what was going on.
Gil, gil, gil, where's my gil!?
Hey, you can't--! My gil, give it back--!
...She disappeared... I don't have a clue what was going on.
Gil, gil, gil, where's my gil!?
Hey, you can't--! My gil, give it back--!
......
I know, I know, Cloud. But let's listen for a bit.
Yeah, come to think of it there was something.
Huh?......
I'm gonna leave it up to you all.
I'll leave it up to you so please do as you see fit.
Well then, let's do our best.
Well then, let's do our best.
Now, shall we get some rest?
Hey you!! What're you lookin' so down for!?How 'bout it? Want me to read your fortune!? A bright future! A happy future!Oh, but don't hold it against me if it's not a great prediction!Oh, so sorry! I'm a fortune telling machine. The name's....
You kidding!? I can find missing things, missing people, anything!
Sephiroth, right!?Okay, here goes!!
Huh? Let me try again.
Wait, wait give me another chance!Wait! Let me try it again!
I don't know if it's good OR bad...This's the first time I ever got something like THIS.Then shall we?
As a fortune teller, I can't help but think about this.If I don't see what it leads to, I won't be able to relax. That's why I'm going with you!
I'm comin' with you no matter WHAT you say!
Hurry and run, it's gonna get ugly.
Cloud...
A desert prison... Corel Prison...
Yup, a natural prison in the middle of the desert... surrounded entirely by quicksand.I heard that once you get in, you never get out...But, there was one special exception...
Whew! That's one of your friends? He sure looks dangerous...
Ju...... just hold on for a second! We just want to talk! You'll understand if you just hear us out!
Fortune's good. Everything is perfect!
Ok Cloud, knock 'em dead!
How'd they know that we were here?
You don't think there's a spy, do you Cloud?I hate this. Now everyone's gonna blame me because I'm new.
Hmmm... So this is Cosmo Canyon.
I'm just dead tired. Everyone, how 'bout some rest?
Hmm, this place seems like it has a lot of secrets.So, when's dinner?
What did they say?
I wonder how many years it's been... Gosh, it brings back memories......
Dangerous? Count me out......
Cloud, maybe you were just dreaming...?
The whole town was destroyed by Sephiroth. At least that's what I heard...
Cloud, did you make up your story just to get our support?
Aren't you glad you woke up?
Hey, that's not right---
You think that's punishing yourself? You're just sleeping.
What?
Cloud! If we steal it, we'll get in deep trouble!
Fortune telling machine , here.
Man, he sure seems wound up tight.
Is he like this all the time...? Bitin' your head off like that? I could never stand it...
No! It's going to take off!
I don't mind.
Wh, wh, what is it, all of a sudden!? Don't scare me like that!
You serious? I can't trust a person like you.But, I guess I'm not one to talk.
That's Sh... Shinra's......
Not bad, Yuffie, not bad at all.
This one? What do you mean 'THIS one'?So you had something else that you're planning to trick us with!
What's going on!?Something's missing, and it's my materia-it's all gone!!
Now... where's Yuffie...?
She's done it again!She sure took us for fools!She must've been after our materia from the beginning.We can't just let her get away, right? Then, let's hurry after her! Which way? It's North, the North! It's a message from the stars!
Well, let's get our materia back.
Wh, what is this!?
Hey help us...please!
Listen you stupid, slimy, sleazy old scab bag! If you want to get women, there's such a thing as the RIGHT way!
You sure are vulgar!
You guys have some good in you.
If you put it that way, we can't refuse...
Then, I'm off!
What's wrong?
Too bad. It happens, though.I know! Let's stay at the hotel! They know me here. I'll go talk to them.
We don't usually get the chance to be together like this, huh?Cloud, how 'bout it? Can you tell us what's happened so far?I don't really know what's goin' on because I wasn't here in the beginning.
I heard from Dio that a man in a Black Cape was lookin' for the Black Materia.
What was that, all of a sudden!?
Is that all? How 'bout the Black Materia?
I don't know what's goin' on, but we're in a bad situation...
Hey! Over here! The Keystone!
W, wait a second. I won't run or hide.Yes, I was a spy. I was hired by the Shinra.
I couldn't help it.How 'bout if we continue like nothing ever happened?
Then, what are you goin' to do? Kill me?You'd just be wastin' your time if you tried. This body's just a toy anyway.My real body's at Shinra Headquarters in Midgar. I'm controlin' this toy cat from there.
Whoa, I can't tell you my name.
See? I told you! Talking won't do any good, so can't we just continue our journey?
...Alright, yes, I am a Shinra employee.But we're not entirely enemies....Something bothers me. I think it's your way of life.You don't get paid. You don't get praised. Yet, you still risk your lives and continue on your journey. Seeing that makes me...It just makes me think about my life. I don't think I'd feel too good if things ended the way they are now.
...just as I thought. Talking won't make a bit of difference.But I prepared something in case this happened.Why don't you listen to this?
...So, you have to do as I say.
I didn't want to do this... using dirty tricks and taking hostages...But this is how it is... no compromises. So why don't we continue on as we did?
Tomorrow is the Temple of the Ancients, right? I know where it is so I'll tell you later.Of course, we'll get there after the Shinra, but you'll have to deal with that.
Oh, you didn't seem to know this, but...The Keystone is the key to the Temple of the Ancients. Even so, you're all going, right?I know where it is, so I'll show you later.The Shinra have already been there, but I guess you have to deal with that.
What took you so long, Cloud?Oh yeah, about the Temple of the Ancients. I think if we take the Tiny Bronco East towards the sea, we should be able to find it.Well then, shall we get goin'? Who's gonna go?
The Temple of the Ancients is to the east. Shall we go?
Then see you later.
Oh!? It's an number 9 tattoo.
Wow, this place is huge! I'm starting to get bored.
...I saw it. Tseng was in bad shape.
I wonder if he'll go down that easy?
It's a battle!
Cloud! What's wrong with you!?
Then, we got trouble.Oh, so something's going to fall from the sky? It's going to be something big.
The Ancients were a mean bunch. This way, no one'll be able to get it.
I heard your situation!Don't forget about me.Everything you said makes perfect sense!You can use my stuffed body for the future of the Planet.
So that means you don't trust me?But Cloud. There's really nothing else you can do.Everyone, please trust me.
All righty then! Leave it all to me!Everyone, hurry up and get outside!I'll go with you to a safe place.
You sure are stubborn, Cloud.Please believe me, Cloud.
Hi, Cloud. This is .I overheard the whole story!Don't forget about me.Everything you said makes perfect sense!You can use my stuffed body for the future of the Planet.
But Cloud. There's really nothing else you can do.Everyone, please trust me.
All righty then! Leave it all to me!Please hurry, you've got to get out of here!I'll be waiting at the exit!
You sure are stubborn, Cloud.Please believe me, Cloud.
Sorry to keep you waiting!! It's Me!!
Mmm, I understand. I feel the same too.
Say, that's right... I haven't done it in a while, huh?I'm so exited. Right or wrong, I'm still the same 'ol meNow, what should I predict?
That'll cost ya. Exactly one date!Here I go!
Is that so? Then I'll tell you.Looks good. You are perfect for each other!Aeris's star and Cloud's star! They show a great future!Cloud, I'll be your matchmaker, preacher... I'll do whatever you want me to!You just call me when it all happens!Thank you for believing in me, knowing that I was a spy.This is the final, final farewell!
She told me to 'Be strong.' I feel so happy.
Oops! This looks like I came at a bad time!I'm  No. 2. Right pleased to meet you all!
Cloud!! What are you doin'!!
Wa------it!Cloud, uh that's the road to the Northern Mountains.Aeris is waiting, let's go find her.
We're in luck. There's a bed in here.
Cloud, why don't we catch 40?
What's wrong? What time is it...?
Are you serious, Cloud!?
But how can you tell that?
If that's true, then we're in for it! We have to find Aeris fast!
What are you doing!
Why're you being so formal? Is something wrong?
Watch you?...... We're all in this together!
I wonder which way Sephiroth went?
Cloud! Are you all right?
A little off.
Then, let's look at the map. Just open it with the [] button.
This is secret info, but... Rufus's going to arrive here, too.
It's trying to heal its wound by gathering all that energy here.
I'll gather everybody, so you go on ahead.
Vanished?...That can't be!
You serious!? That's not Sephiroth!
No, not the Black materia, please.
Something feels rea---lly weird here!
But Tifa! Isn't this an illusion?
Cloud, something's strange here. Who is this guy?
Come on, we have to hurry back to the real world!
This is insane...
Everyone Ok?Umm...this was a hallucination.
(untying Barret's arms)I'm here to help!
Let's just say I'm against capital punishment. Besides... I hate this broad. Come on, we gotta help Tifa.I'll keep watch at the entrance.
Hmm, we gotta go with a different plan. Let's get out of this room first.
OK, OK time for Plan B. Let's run to the airport!
Trust me, trust me. We gotta take a chance.
Where you goin'? The airport's the other way.
Uh oh? Did I make a wrong turn?
Well, I'll catch the details later.In any case, the Airship, Highwind, is now yours.
Sorry, but I had to do something to trick the enemy.Come on! Everyone is waiting!
Tifa, I'll give you information Shinra.Ask me if there's anything you don't understand.
Everything appears calm right now at Shinra.So now's the time to look for Cloud.I'm worried about him, too.I wonder where Cloud is. Or could he already be......
Jackpot!
Wait up!
That's terrible......
Hey doctor, is Cloud all right? Is he gonna get better? Come on, tell us the truth.
No wonder. After falling into the Lifestream......
Yeah! I know Cloud'll get better!With friends like us worrying about him He can't go wrong.
You all right?
If Tifa was my nurse, I'd switch places with Cloud any day!
What're you talkin' about? Not even. We'll stop in again.
Hope Cloud gets better soon.
Well, I guess we'd better go back to the Highwind.
Oh, I've got some news.
Yeah...... I've already told you I was.Both gya ha ha and Kya ha ha, are up to something.Wanna eavesdrop?
So, what are you saying, Barret?Even though you're always knocking him, you really want Cloud to return.
Hmmn, the Huge Materia is at Corel, Fort Condor......I'm sure there was another place that had it. Where was that......?
Wha... what is it, what is it!
Wha... you're not thinking about giving up...
Way to go, Mister! You used to drivin' this thing too?
Huh? What'd you just say!?
It's not all over yet. Cheer up!
What are we gonna do, kill off the engineer!?
Hey---------WAIT! ...other way, other way, other way!
No... DON'T----!!
We got into this situation because we goofed...
We headin' out to the Underwater Reactor?
Cloud...
......
Yeah, come to think of it there was something.
Well then, let's do our best.
You're right. If we lose here, we'll be in great danger.
Hmm, you mean this?
You must mean Mr. Cloud......
Oy! What on earth happened?
Things sure don't go smoothly.
It'd be one thing if it was a joke, but this's the truth.
Cloud......
Shinra's...... stopped.Now we've got to be careful. I know Heidegger and his gang are plotting something.
No matter how many lives I get, it ain't enough!
Looks like the Lifestream's back under control too.
But what about Cloud and the others......!?
By the way, Cloud. What are you going to do now?Don't tell me you're going to leave the ship?
Listen, Cloud.We're right in the middle of the mission for the Huge Materia, right?I know this's kinda outta the blue, but there's a underwater reactor at Junon.As far as I can see, that's the only one left.That's that. Let's go!
This's kinda on the spur o' the moment, but shouldn't we oughta get to Junon!?
There's the submarine dock just ahead of us.
Oh no! It left the dock...
Hey you! Where ya goin'?
I can't fit in this seat... No good!
It's movin'--- Keep it up, Cloud!
Oh please drive safely, Cloud!
We need to respond!
We gotta hurry!
What we gonna do?
Let's go to the airport!
Security's pretty light now! The submarine's at the submarine dock!
How 'bout us getting there beforehand and stealing it back?
Where is it flying to?
Them Shinra's ar' all gathered at Cid's Rocket Town...Yep... there ain't nuthin' I like more than lettin' out secrets.
What shall we do? What shall we do?I'm a toy, so I don't care, but for all of you it's a different story...
By the way, what are we goin' to do with the Huge Materia?
What shall we do--- It won't budge!
We been botherin' them as much as we can...But there ain't no other way... Wonder if we've been wrong all this time?
This's just between you 'n' me but...That there Bugenhagen feller, used to be a pretty handy Shinra worker.Yep, he ain't never bought no weapons or Mako though......
My head, it's about to be crushed.
How about it, Cloud? Shouldn't we have the others come?
Nope. Not a thing. Naw. Can't come up with a thing.
I went an' told Aeris' Mom about her death.Yes, an' Miss Elmyra was cryin' herself silly... So was little Marlene...
Lately, they don't call me to no more meetin's. Reckon that's because y'all know I'm a spy.
It's WE! Isn't it WE?
What Aeris left us... We mustn't let go to waste...
H... Hey!
whisper... whisper... (sorry I was a little surprised).
You remember when the Junon Cannon disappeared? Actually, Rufus moved it.
Rufus wants to destroy Sephiroth with it.That cannon operates on Huge Materia. But the Huge Materia has already been used in the Rocket Plan.So since the cannon's useless right now, he decided to move it.To a place where Materia... no, where Mako is gathered...
Wow!Hey!That was a surprise, the controls went crazy.This ain't good...Weapon came out of the sea and is heading straight for Midgar.
I don't know if it's ready or not...
Doncha worry none, Marlene's in a safe place. She's with Aeris' mama.Barret!!What was that scratching just now!?As long as Marlene is safe, who cares what else happens, right?I been itchin' to say this to ya fer a while now!When ya blew the Midgar No. 1 up, how many folks d'ya think died?
A few? Whaddya mean 'a few'? What may be a few to y'all is everythin' to them who died......Protect the planet. Hah! Y'all sure sound good!Ain't no one that'd go against ya. So ya think ya can do whatever y'all want?
......nuthin' I can do 'bout that...
Cloud, you do your best now, hear!?I know y'all can't forgive the Shinra, but them poor folks in Midgar ain't done a bit wrong!
What's going on?
Let's go back to the Airship.
Oh no! We gotta get outta here!Something big... I'm talkin' REALLY BIG's comin'!
Oh no! Let's hurry out of here!Something big... I'm talkin' REALLY BIG's comin'!
......Wonder what that Sephiroth feller's up to?
Hold it!Scarlet! Heidegger! What's going on?
We're sunk. Hojo's doing this on his own.........? ...? H, huh!?I don't like this......
......We can't stop it.
............
I can't make you trust me......
No way! If we shut down the reactor, all hell will break loose!!
Yeah, it's easy to shut off the reactor's pipe valves......But the reactor made a path for the energy to escape from below.Once you open that, it'll be impossible to close it until everything blasts out...And we can't try to stop the energy from gushing out......
This blast'll be way stronger than when the number 1 reactor blew up!
Forget about that......... the CANNON! We've got to get to Midgar! That's the first thing!!
But!But you'll come, won't you!?
I can't 'pologize to y'all enough.If I was just a bit more o' a better feller Ain't none of this woulda happened...
Heidegger is going after you all.That's why it's dangerous out there. Let's go underground!
This is where we go in.
No, no! The Sister Ray's not this way!
No, no way...... I didn't know they completed it...
We don't got any time! Please get on with it!
This way, Cloud!
I'm so glad you came.
Shinra's...... finished.
Uh, excuse me but...I wanted to come with the main group, but I couldn't get away......So some people in Midgar took me in.I know I have a stuffed animal body, but I'll work really hard!
But I ain't gonna forget, no matter what happens.Not about this here trip, or them folks--none of it!
Then I'll be heading...
I'm so happy to have met you all, really! ...sniff...
Cloud, what shall we do?
Then, I'll be heading...
There's nothing to worry about. ALL of us are in this together!
You're so cruel, Cloud.
Hey, Cloud, I found this.
By the way, Yuffie, didn't you pick up something...
Well, shall we get goin'?
Yeah, a major practice run...
What!
This is definitely not good...... He's way outta our league...
We're not losin'!!Maybe we were a little late in noticing the trouble that we were getting into...But, there's still time... We should still be able to get out of it! Even if we can't get EVERYTHING back to normal!We should be able to protect what's most important!!
I had everyone take refuge in the slums,but the way things are now...
