Do you want a Chocobo?
You old folks are out of luck!
We're all out of Chocobos. I'm taking care of those ones out there for someone else.You know, if you really want a Chocobo, you should go out and catch one.Want to know how to catch a Chocobo?
You see those claw prints out there? Wild Chocobo's will appear in those areas.But, if you don't have 'Chocobo Lure' they won't come out. They very cautious animals by nature.
'Chocobo Lure' is a type of materia which attracts Chocobos.If you equip this, they'll come to you. But, without it, they won't appear.
A wild Chocobo always appears with other monsters.But, you won't be able to catch it because of the monsters.That is why you must defeat the monsters first before you catch the Chocobo.
Also, wild Chocobos are really cautious. They'll run away from the slightest things.But, if you use 'Greens' They'll focus on that, and won't run away.
Whatever you do, don't make Chocobos angry. They're usually calm, but if you get them angry, you'll get hurt.Oh, and remember, once you get off a Chocobo, it'll escape.
Well then, shall we get down to business?I'll sell you the 'Chocobo Lure' for 2000 gil, right now.You want it?
Thanks!It wouldn't hurt to buy some 'Greens' either.Oh, and how fast a Chocobo'll finish eating depends of what type of 'Greens' you feed them.
Mmmm, if you don't have it, you'll never catch one.
The 'Chocobo Lure' is 2000 gil. Buy it now?
Oh, I'm so glad!
Welcome!
What the Chocobo eats are 'Greens' The most famous one is the 'Gizzard greens.'Chocobos will mature differently depending on which 'Greens' they eat. Certain 'Greens' will boost their stamina.You'll have to figure out what kinds have what effects for yourselves.Oh, and Chocobos are born with certain natural abilities. So no matter how much they mature, they can't get more abilities than what they're born with.Remember that if a Chocobo's abilities don't increase even though you feed it, that means its limit is reached.It's best to let those kinds of Chocobo go or mate them to get a new Chocobo.
A male and a female Chocobo together can produce an egg.
The Chocobo out there is part of the stock that you caught.We can only keep 4 Chocobos here at once. If you get a fifth one, the first one will have to be let go.If you don't want that to happen, come back and put it in your own stable.
Yeah, you can ride this oneAnd even if you take it outside, this Chocobo won't run away when you get off of it.If you want to return to your 'Chocobo Stable' just ride it onto the farm.Then, you'll be able to feed it again.
Chocobos 'strengths are divided by 'Class'.
You don't even have any 'Chocobo Stable'If you want to raise Chocobos, go talk to Grandpa.
It looks like you haven't even caught one yet...
You have all the 'Chocobo Stables' you can carry.If you want to put a Chocobo in it, first, you must let it go and open a 'Chocobo Stable.'
Which one are you going to put in the 'Chocobo Stable'?Use the Directional button left or right and O.
Want to put this Chocobo in your stable?
Then, give Chocobo Female/Male a name.
I'm really going to let him go.
You don't even have any 'Chocobo Stable'If you want to raise Chocobos, go talk to Grandpa.
Your 'Chocobo Stable' are empty.
You don't have any 'Greens'... It just so happens I can sell you one...
Which Chocobo are you going to feed it to?
You don't even have any 'Chocobo Stable'If you want to raise Chocobos, go talk to Grandpa.
Your 'Chocobo Stable' are empty.
You better have a 'Chocobo Stable' prepared for the little ones too.
Looks like you don't have any 'Nuts'... To get them to produce an egg, you need a 'Nut' Do you want me to sell you one?
There's only one...
They gotta be male and female.
You shouldn't mate those that just mated or those that were just born.There doesn't seem to be any others you could mate it with.
Which two Chocobos are you going to mate?Talk to the two you like and make your decision.
Which nut are you going to give 'em?
Is this one all right?
You got yourself a new Chocobo!Then, give Chocobo Male/Female a name.
You don't even have any 'Chocobo Stable'If you want to raise Chocobos, go talk to Grandpa.
Your 'Chocobo Stable' are empty.
Which Chocobo are you going to let go?
You don't even have any 'Chocobo Stable'If you want to raise Chocobos, go talk to Grandpa.
Your 'Chocobo Stable' are empty.
Which one are you going to take?
