Thinking of crossing the marshes?
Hmm, then it'll probably be safer for you to get a Chocobo.That way you can zip through the marshes with the Chocobo.It's the only way to avoid being attacked by the Midgar Zolom.Midgar Zolom...?It's a serpent-like creature over 30 feet tall!!It picks up on footsteps that enter the marshes...And then, BAM!! It attacks!!!To avoid that, buy a Chocobo at the  & y Chocobo Farm.To purchase a Chocobo, please talk to my grandson. He's in the Chocobo stables at the far right end of the farm.By the way, there was another person heading towards the Marshes.Without a Chocobo, the Midgar Zolom probably got him. It was a man in a Black Cape.
Hmm, then, I guess that's that.
Looking for an Inn?
How about 100 gil a night...?
Thank you for your patronage.
Hmm, then, I guess that's that.
Hmm, then, I guess that's that.
Welcome.How 'bout a Chocobo Lure materia?Each level it increases, makes it easier for you to find a Chocobo.
Oh, what is that? What has this world come to? Stars falling and everything.With things the way they are now, how 'bout raising a Chocobo?No, I'm not trying to persuade you for money. It's just because of the state of things in the world.I thought that it would be a good and healthy thing for you to raise some Chocobos...Hmm... You just happen to be in luck!It just so happens that we aren't taking care of any Chocobos for anyone else, so...I could take care of 6 Chocobos right now, for 10000 gil per Chocobo. How 'bout it?
To raise a Chocobo, you'll need a 'Chocobo Stable'.And they rent for 10000 gil. Currently, I can rent out up to 6 'Chocobo Stables'.If you rent a 'Chocobo Stable', we will keep up to 4 of the Chocobos you catch in the fenced area outside.At a later date, you can select the Chocobo that you would like to put in your 'Chocobo Stable'.'Chocobo Stables' cost 10000 gil...
Thank you.My grandson takes care of the Chocobos. He's in the Chocobo Stable at the far right of the farm. Please tell him what you want.
Someone once told me there is a 'Chocobo Sage'... somewhere.He seems to know how to raise some great Chocobos.If he really does exist, I'd like to meet him someday.
Chocobos aren't hard to take care of.The day to day care will all be done here.But, please buy the food for the Chocobo, and feed them yourselves.Chocobo's abilities will differ with what you feed it, so feel free to choose your own food.Also, if you're able to find a male and a female Chocobo that like each other, they'll produce an egg. But only if you feed them a 'Nut'.New Chocobos inherit the abilities of their parents.I've heard that sometimes new breeds of Chocobo are born with special abilities. I've never actually seen it before, though.
