Welcome.
Wasn't it really expensive?But don't be mad at my brother or Grandpa.Ever since dad and mom died, it's been like this...
Welcome! Hey, I've got something good to tell you.The white Chocobo likes it when you scratch behind its ears.But if you scratch it someplace that it doesn't like, it'll get mad, so be careful.
Hey, do you know what a Chocobo Sage is?What!? You've actually met him!?Wow! What did he tell you?
Wow, that's amazing! ...let me take some notes.
Hey, did you ever see the Chocobo Sage again? What did he tell you?
Wow, that's amazing! ...let me take some notes.What...?
Other than regular Chocobo, there are "Mountain Chocobo" and "River-Chocobo".In order for the "Mountain Chocobo" and "River Chocobo" to be born,You feed the "Carob Nut" to a "Great Chocobo" or a "Good Chocobo" and have it produce an egg.But we don't sell any "Carob Nuts".A "Great Chocobo" and a "Good Chocobo" are found...On an island Southeast of the Chocobo Sage's dwelling at Corel. And in the area west of Corel.The "Carob Nut" can be found south of the Chocobo Sage's dwelling. Monsters carry them.Let's see, is Bone Village just south of there?One surprise If you get the "Mountain Chocobo" and the "River Chocobo" to produce an egg,You'll get a Chocobo that can cross mountains and rivers. I bet that the right nut for that is the "Carob Nut."Bigger surprise: There seems to be a Chocobo that can cross the ocean.If you could cross the ocean, mountains, and rivers, there'd be no place you couldn't go.In order to get an Ocean Chocobo you need to get a Mountain-and-river Chocobo to mate with something else.If you mate the Mountain-and-river Chocobo with a "Wonderful Chocobo",You'll get an Ocean Chocobo. But to do that you can't use an ordinary Nut.The "Nut" that produces Ocean Chocobos is the "Zeio Nut".This is the first I've heard of it. I wonder where you get them?Zeio Nuts are found on a little island east of the Chocobo Sage."Goblins" have them. With this, you can produce an "Ocean Chocobo".According to my research, Mountain, river, and ocean Chocobos are hard to produce.But, if you take the right care of the Chocobo, and increase their Class ranking by winning at the races, it'll increase your chances of getting one.
(if you have only one chocobo)Hey, there's only one Chocobo.
(otherwise)For telling me that story, I'll tell you about each Chocobo's abilities.From what I see, the fastest sprinter is...I think it's Choco.And, the fastest one is...That's ChocoAlso, from what I can tell, the one with the most stamina is...I think it's Choco.Finally, the most intelligent one is...That's Choco
