Mmm? Me? I'm the owner of the Gold Saucer. The name's .Just call me ''.
By the way, boy, do you know what a 'Black Materia' is?
Oh, so you do know.
Ha ha ha...... that, I say, that's a good one, boy! But it's not good to lie. You can't fool me.
Well, a while back, a boy your age came in and asked me if I had a 'Black Materia.'I thought you might know who he was, seein' as how you're both about the same age.
Why yes, yes indeed. And a tattoo on his hand that said '1'.
Ha ha ha, I have no idea.Well then.I say, stop by the Battle Arena if you like, boy.You'll probably like it. Many of my collections are on display there.Ha, ha ha.
Did you guys do this!?
(if you spoke earlier)I must've been wrong...
Hold them!!
That's as far as you go.
One more to go.
There's no need to listen. Pay for your crime down below!!Do it!
Boy, if you're reading this letter, then you must've won. And won a victory that I am sure you earned.I heard about Dyne from Ester. Now that you are victorious, I promise that you and all your friends will get a full pardon, and you all will be set free.And also, by way of apology, I prepared a little gift for you to use on your journey.Sorry I couldn't be there to tell you this in person, but I'm a very busy man.Sincerely,
Heh, heh, heh. Long time no see, my boy. Hmm? You like that, huh?
Heh, heh, heh. Sorry, but it's not for rent.Hmm.Since you've been good to me in the past, I CAN let you have it on one condition.
Heh, heh, heh. Entertain me!
Hoo boy!Heh, heh, heh. It's not something that's really difficult.This is the Battle Arena. Show me your fighting skills. Just you, my boy. I'm expecting a good fight!
I see... Then let's pretend that this never happened.
Heh, heh, heh! Well done, young man! All right, as I promised,you can take it. Oh, and I'll give you this too.
Hmm, you did pretty well, young man!Good, it's a promise, so go ahead and take it. I'll give this to you too.
That's the best you could do? Well, a promise is a promise. Go ahead, take it.
Well then, we shall meet again! Heh, heh, heh.
I'm sorry, I'm gonna close this for a while.I'm just debating if I should be in business at a time like this.
(if you spoke to him while it was closed)I thought about it, but there was only one conclusion.I believed that because of the way things are, there's a need for a place like this.Enjoy yourselves... Ha ha ha ha...
