Where did I put it...? I know it's around here...
Ahh, here it is.My job is to gather all the legends and the knowledge of the planet and to make a book.Then, even when I return to the planet, the children may still be taught about many things...Mmm? Oh, we have guests. Good, good.I know, I know.You came to ask me something, right? Am I right?
...The Promised Land. So you want to know...?There is no one place called the Promised Land. That's what I believe.No no, it does exist. Hmmm...... you can say that too.In other words, it doesn't exist for us, but it did for the Ancients.The Promised Land is the resting place of the Ancients.The life of the Ancients is one continuous journey. A journey to grow trees and plants, produce animals, and to raise Mako energy.Their harsh journeys continued throughout their lives...The place they returned to after their long journey... Their burial land is the Promised Land.Huh? Supreme Happiness? I believe that, for the Ancients, it was the moment that they were able to return to their Planet,At that moment they were released from their fate, and gained their supreme happiness...At least that's what I believe. I really don't know whether or not it's the truth now.
Oh, that's not what you're here for?I'd appreciate it if you don't talk to me about such foolish things as legends and old wives tales.
By the way, those that came with you are all at the Cosmo Candle.Are you leaving?
Mm... oh, this? This is the book of Stars. I'm just finishing it.Nothing is meaningless. If I do this then, someday, someone will run across it.The Ancients did the same. That is how we know about them, right? Maybe my book also......
(in the observatory)I hope great Bugenhagen will take care and not overexert himself.'Ho Ho Hoooo.' I may be light, But I'm not as young as Nanaki.Oops. That will only get you angry. You're just like me. Ho ho ho.
I think Bugenhagen has foreseen it.About the planet... About Nanaki... And, about himself...But, Bugenhagen would never say that. All he says is 'Ho Ho Hoooo'...
