Hi...... I happened to hear your story.
I'll be your manager.
That's so rude...Yeah, well. Nice to meet you, Cloud.
Hmm, so that's what happened. I'll talk to Dio directly. You just concentrate on the race.Oh yeah, getting back to the other thing, there are many different types of Chocobo jockeys. It's not only for criminals.Some people compete for the fame, some people compete for the money, some for glory... And then there're people like you.Oh yeah, I'll teach you how to ride a Chocobo.
Ummm... First use the [Select] button to choose either AUTO or MANUAL.In other words, either you control the Chocobo or let it run on its own.But it's pretty hard to make the Chocobo run the way you want it to. If the Chocobo doesn't like you, it won't listen.You can't really help on this one.But, most of the Chocobo's that I'll provide you with are mellow and you should be able to handle them.When you're riding, use the [] Button to Speed Up and the X Button to Slow Down.But, if you go faster than the Chocobo can handle, it'll lose its stamina really fast.And use the Directional button to move the Chocobo left and right, use the O Button to get a boost of speed.Of course your stamina runs out faster though.There are some bad tempered Chocobos that can't pace themselves and they'll lose their stamina pretty fast.For these kinds of Chocobos, you should set the controls on Manual and slow it down.Finally, some advice for the restless, once the first and second Chocobo cross the goal line,Push the [Start] button to end the race.
Hi, Joe.
Thanks.Let me introduce you, Cloud.This is Joe, one of the top Chocobo Jockeys.
Right! He's an up and coming jockey.He's only been down here for a day and already he made it up here!!
I'm going to check on the Chocobo. You just wait here for a while.I'll be right back.
CloudThanks for waiting. I registered you in the next race.This is a Chocobo I prepared myself. He won't lose easily.Oh yeah... You know how to ride one?
Then, good luck.
Too bad.
Let me find a better Chocobo for you. Wait here for a while, OK?
If you couldn't win with that last Chocobo...All right, I'll go get the best Chocobo there is!
You gotta be kidding me!? There aren't any other Chocobos better than the last one!Well, if you really want to win, just push the 'SELECT'and try the 'AUTO' mode.
Congratulations!! Now you're home free!Oh yeah, the owner told me to give this letter to you when you won.
I guess this is goodbye.Yeah. Well, if you ever get your own Race Chocobo, come back again.I'll take care of your registration and everything. I'll see you again.
Hey, long time no see... How have you been?There's a lot going on in the world outside.It got a little lonely around here, but you can't keep a jockey from doing what he loves.How 'bout it, you want to ride again? You have your own Chocobo, right?Do you want to ride?
Hmm, seems like there aren't any Chocobos that can be registered...
I'll register this C/B/A/S rank Chocobo.
Which do you want, the long course or the short one?

Congratulations! You came in first!
Oh, you forgot? It's all right. Ahem!First use the [Select] button to choose either AUTO or MANUAL.In other words, either you control the Chocobo or let it run on its own.But it's pretty hard to make the Chocobo run the way you want it to. If the Chocobo doesn't like you, it won't listen.You can't really help on this one.But, most of the Chocobos that I'll provide you with are mellow and you should be able to handle them.When you're riding, use the [] Button to Speed Up and the X Button to Slow Down.But, if you go faster than the Chocobo can handle, it'll lose its stamina really fast.And use the Directional button to move the Chocobo left and right, use the O Button to get a boost of speed.Of course your stamina runs out faster though.There are some bad tempered Chocobos that can't pace themselves and they'll lose their stamina pretty fast.For those kinds of Chocobos, you should set the controls on Manual and slow it down.Finally, some advice for the restless, once the first and second Chocobo cross the goal line,Push the [Start] button to end the race.
