Ha, ha, ha!! Smoothly, very smoothly! I assigned the Turks to this.
Reeve, you should flush those personal problems in the morning!
Mayor?He just sits in this building all day feeding his face! You still call that a Mayor?Now if you'll excuse me sir!
Ha ha ha!After all, we're the ones who saved Sector 7 from AVALANCHE!
The long range airship is still being prepared.It should be ready in about three more days. Gya haa haa!
......Gya haa haa!
Gya...
Yes Sir, we'll get it ready quickly.
Gya haa ha...!! Here's a special bonus for you!!A token of the President's kindness! Don't forget it!
Gya haa ha...!! Here's a special bonus for you!!A token of the President's kindness! Don't forget it!
Gya haa ha...!! Here's a special bonus for you!!A token of the President's kindness! Don't forget it!
We'll crush them as soon as we find them!
Leave it up to me, sir! Gya haa ha!
Gya......
Gya, Heh, heh..., ha!! Hurry up with that!
......Yes.
......Yes.
I'm ashamed of myself.
This is the Promised Land the President has been searching for!!
President! Preparations for the public execution are complete.
I'll tie your arms now.
It's Weapon.
I believe so. Your orders?
We'll give it a shot from our big cannon.Open cannon doors!! Activate cannon. Target: Weapon!!
The cannon...Fire----!!!
Seems so...
It can't be! We hit it dead on!
It'll take time to reload.
Yes sir! Open all artillery doors! Target: Weapon! Don't let it land!
Gya haah hah hah! We already solved the first problem!Meteor will soon be smashed to bits!The plan has already been put in motion. Namely, to collect Huge Materia from each region.
We've already collected materia from Nibelheim.All that's left is "Corel" and "Fort Condor".I've already dispatched troops to Corel.Ghaa haah hah hah!
Gya hah, hah, hah! The President's sure done it this time!If we can only defeat Sephiroth, the idea that Meteor will also disappear is based on different objectives!
Hah, hah, hah, Mr. President, preparations for Sister Ray are now in order.
Strange. I can't reach the President!
Huh? Why are you giving orders?
Ghaa haah hah hah!Don't be so ludicrous! I don't recall you giving me any orders!The Peace Preservation will give their best effort to make the enemy retreat!Because of them, I...... I...!
The President is dead! Now I'm doing things my way!Ghaa haah hah hah!
G'yaaa, Haaa, Haaa!!! Here they come!G'yaaa, Haaa, Haaa!!! So they really showed up!
You sure did treat us like dogs up to now!!
G'yaaa, Haaa, Haaa!!! But let's see how you do against anti-Weapon artillery!
Whoooooa!!
