2000 years ago, our ancestors, the Cetra, heard the cries of the Planet.The first ones to discover the Planet's wound were the Cetra at the Knowlespole.
Knowlespole refers to this area. The Cetra then began a Planet-reading.
...I can't explain it very well, but it's like having a conversation with the Planet...It said something fell from the sky making a large wound.
No, it's not that kind of power. The life force of all living things on this Planet becomes the energy.The Cetra tried desperately to cultivate the land so as not to diminish the needed energy...
Yes, the energy that was needed to heal the Planet withered away the land... then the Planet...The Planet tried to persuade the Cetra to leave the Knowlespole, but...
I'm all right... When the Cetra... were preparing to part with the land they loved...That's when it appeared!It looked like... our... our dead mothers... and our dead brothers. Showing us spectres of their past.
That's when the one who injured the Planet... or the 'crisis from the sky', as we call him, came.
Yes, Professor.The one the Professor mistook for a Cetra... was named Jenova. That is the 'crisis from the sky'.The Planet knew it had to destroy the 'crisis from the sky'...You see, as long as Jenova exists, the Planet will never be able to fully heal itself.
Yes, but... There is no record of Weapon ever being used.A small number of the surviving Cetra defeated Jenova, and confined it.The Planet produced Weapon... But it was no longer necessary to use it.
Weapon cannot vanish. ...it remains asleep somewhere on the Planet.Even though Jenova is confined, it could come back to life at some time...The Planet has not fully healed itself yet. It is still, watching Jenova.
I don't know...... I can't hear the voice of the Planet well...Times... have changed. The Planet... is probably watching this situation closely.
What are you doing, Profes...... I mean, honey?
What are you going to tape? Is there still something I haven't mentioned?
First, we have to figure out her name. We can take the video later!
You are SO selfish! But Aeris is a good name!Hee hee... it's a good name, considering it came out of that forgetful head of yours!
Video again? You just got through taping!
If you keep doting on her like that, she won't grow up to be strong...Aeris is different from the other children. I wonder what dangers await her...?
I feel so much better now, darling.If I hadn't met you, I......
I'll send them away.Yes, at once!!Who the devil?
Please, Aeris has nothing to do with it! All you want is me, right?
Wh... what are you doing, Professor!?
Eyaaaaaah... Darling......!!
