Welcome. It'll be 10 Gil per night.- Stay- Don't stay
(after sleeping)Thank you very much. Please come again.
All right then......, please come again.
Mr...... Cloud? Your party is waiting for you on the 2nd floor.
20 gil a night. What's it gonna be?
(she only says anything if you don't have enough gil)Seems like you're a little short. Why don't you drop by again... when you have money.
Are you sure it's all right?Nap while on duty?- 30 gil- Forget it
Enjoy your stay.
Good morning! You still seem a little sleepy.Looking forward to seeing you again.
Come again.
Uggh! I feel God awful! Oh!! You!Weren't you the one with that big sailor?
Listen to this...All of a sudden, this big sailor just busts in here, and takes over the restroom.He's been in there moaning ever since.I don't know what I'm gonna do.Ah...... if you're checking in, would you please pay his bill, too?
Wrong guy? It puts us in a bad situation. That guy's taken over the john.And he hasn't even paid his hotel bit yet.Ah...... if you're checking in, would you please pay his bill, too?
Come on now... He's a friend of yours...... fibber.What now? Call it a night?200 gil a night.
Are you sure? Please come again.
Shucks!! Too bad!Hey! Hey you! Does your friend have a cute lady?She came in here looking for him a while ago. Shouldn't you find her?What are you going to do? Just forget about her and go to bed?200 gil a night.
You look like you can handle it. Well then......
That's right. Don't worry. Please come by again.
Welcome!! What's it going to be?200 gil a night.
You must be tired.Tomorrow in the Costa del Sol area the weather is going to be...... sunny, again.Cradled by the sound of the ocean waves...... Sweet dreams...
Good morning. Be careful traveling.Your party has departed.Oops......That's bad luck......I mean, they have already left.
You sure? I'll just be playing around here so drop by whenever you feel like it.
Welcome. It's 50 gil a night. Would you like a room?
Enjoy your stay.
Please come again.
Uh... need somethin'?
It's 80 Gil a night.
One day, there was a huge explosion. Many townspeople died in it...Shinra built the reactor, without even thinking about the town's safety. And, this is the result.It's been a while since the explosion, but you can still find pieces of it left all over town.
Welcome to 'Shildra Inn'.It'll be 100 gil a night. Would you like to stay?
Have a great dream of the stars...
Were you able to hear the stars whispers?Well then, please come again.
Well then, please come again.
Hi, welcome.
It'll be 100 gil a night. Is that all right with you?
Enjoy your stay.
Well then, maybe next time...
Sir, don't say such awful things.I was born and raised in this town. What you say never happened.
EXUSE ME...... That's so rude...If you're going to talk like that to me, I'm going to have to ask you to leave.Oh, I'm so sorry. I've got lots to do...
Welcome to the Shanghai Inn!It's 100 gil a night. Would you like to spend the night?
Yes sir. Thank you!
Well then, come by again sometime.
Excuse me. Please don't come in here.Our books and the room keys are in here, so I'll have to ask you to please stay out.
A man with a Black Cape? No, no one like that has ever stayed here.
Look, we're all adults here, So I'd appreciate it if you used some discretion.
Welcome to the 'Inn'd of the line' in Junon. Wait, I shouldn't be sayin' stuff like that.Wanna spend the night?- 30 gil- Forget it
Enjoy your stay.
Good morning! You still seem a little sleepy.Looking forward to seeing you again.
Come again.
Welcome to 'Shildra Inn' As long as there are guests, our lights will always be on.It is 100 Gil a night. Would you like to stay?
You awake?Those people were so worried that they stayed by your side until you woke up.You sure do have good friends.
It's colder than usual today...It's 200 gil, you wanna spend the night?
Enjoy your stay!
Please come again.
(lying in bed)I don't feel like doing anything. I just want to spend the rest of my life sleeping.Will you be staying together?
Welcome to 'Shindra Inn'. It's times like this a nice, soft bed will do you good.
(if you go behind the desk)Authorized personnel only.
You all right?Some townspeople carried you here so the Shinra wouldn't find you.How much more will they have to destroy before they're satisfied!?Isn't anyone brave enough to stick it to Shinra?
