Wonder what that is on the wall over there. Let's see...Don't be fooled by Shinra! Mako energy doesn't last forever! Mako is the planet's lifesource! The end is in sight!Protectors of the planet: AVALANCHE
Hmmn, now this is something, I never thought anyone would ever climb up here.......Your eyes are different. Well, anyhow. Any minute now, this will be a battlefield against Shinra.
It appears you have a problem with Shinra, too. After all, you climbed up here.Why not listen to what I have to say for a moment?
Do you know what's at the top of this mountain?
I can see you're very perceptive. Yes, it's a reactor and a condor.It seems the Shinra doesn't like the idea of having a condor on top of the reactor.
It seems there's some type of special materia in the reactor above us.And because the condors came, the Shinra rushed troops here.The military wants to get the condor and all the villagers off this mountain.The condors are now warming their eggs, which hatch only once every few years.We would like to protect the condors from being harmed.
Unfortunately, we don't have the ability to fight Shinra ourselves.That's why we have hired soldiers to help us.As our sponsor you can help us with a contribution or by fighting along side of us...What do you think? You want to join us in our fight?
I see...... Come back if you should change your mind.
Have you by chance changed your mind?
(once Cloud agrees)Whew, we'll be saved.Ask my son, who's standing guard at the shed, about the details of our military tactics. We're depending on you.
Yes, yes, I've also told the store owners about you, so they should sell you various items.And feel free to use our beds.Ask my son, who's standing guard at the shed, about anything related to our military tactics.
Oh, it's you guys? How are things going?
Hmmn, now this is something, I never thought anyone would ever climb up here.Any minute now, this will be a battlefield against Shinra. You'd better get down before you get involved.
It appears you have a problem with Shinra, too. After all, you climbed up here.Why not listen to what I have to say for a moment?
Do you know what's at the top of this mountain?
I can see you're very perceptive. Yes, it's a reactor and a condor.Looks like there's a special materia up in the Mako reactor.Then came the condor, so Shinra dispatched the troops to get rid of it.Their plan is to get rid of the condor and the people on this mountain and to get the materia from the Mako Reactor.Unfortunately, we don't have the ability to fight Shinra ourselves.That's why we have hired soldiers to help us.As our sponsor you can help us with a contribution or by fighting along side of us...What do you think? You want to join us in our fight?
I'm begging you. Please prevent the reactor from being destroyed and the condors from being killed.
You've come at a good time. Shinra's changing its strategy now.It seems that Shinra will destroy the reactor and then take out the materia that's inside.
Everyone, thanks. I really mean it. Thanks.Although there isn't anything we can give you, we'll make sure you can stop in and stay any time, so be sure to drop by.Yes, yes, and there's one thing I forgot to tell you......
Received key item "Huge Materia"!
CidHuh? What's this?

BarretDamn man, it's Huge Materia.
YuffieGotta have that materia!
Cait SithHmm, you mean this?
VincentThis is......

The truth is, this is the materia inside the reactor.
CidWhat the hell did we fight for?
We weren't protectin' the reactor, we were protectin' the condors.When that reactor was built, they forced us to help. That's how we knew what was inside the reactor.I knew this day would come, so after the Shinra left, I sneaked in and took the materia.I didn't mean to fool you, but I guess that's how it ended up. I'm really sorry.
CidJust forget about it. Anyway, we're still alive.
I see. If you put it that way...... we're really grateful.
CidSo the last Huge Materia that Shinra's after's in the underwater reactor in Junon?

BarretWe gotta get there first and beat 'em no matter what!
NanakiWe must get there before them and stop them!
YuffieWe gotta get there and stop 'em...
VincentGetting to the reactor before them...

CidBut ya know, Shinra's probably on high alert since we always mess with 'em.How 'bout we take a break and go see that little fella for a bit?

BarretYou mus' mean Cloud......
NanakiYou mean, Cloud...?
YuffieCloud, right...?
Cait SithYou must mean Mr. Cloud......

CidYeah, I'm worried 'bout Tifa; she may've collapsed takin' care of the guy.How 'bout checkin' in on 'em! Down to Mideel!
The truth is, this is the materia inside the reactor.
We weren't protectin' the reactor, we were protectin' the condors.When that reactor was built, they forced us to help. That's how we knew what was inside the reactor.I knew this day would come, so after the Shinra left, I sneaked in and took the materia.I didn't mean to fool you, but I guess that's how it ended up. I'm really sorry.
I see. If you put it that way...... we're really grateful.
