ooh...... aaah......... aghhhh......
ooh...... aaah......... aghhhh......
Hmph......! Everything President Shinra says is a lie.But then again, you can't trust that AVALANCHE, or whatever you call them.You can bat it around all you like. But in the end it comes down to wanting to be like those who live up above.So who do you believe in? Oneself! Me! I never lie to myself, that's for sure!I only believe what I say. That's because I never lie to myself.
Huh? You want weapons? That's too damn bad......I ain't got no weapons to sell ya! And the reason why is......the weapon store's over that way.
Big Bro Get a hold of yourself.
The hell's up with that!? I don't care if they're AVALANCHE or Avant-garde or whatever you call them. Anyone who brings the plates down on us is nuts!!
...sure is loud outside. Wonder what's happening?
But baby, that's way too expensive.
This is the lounge floor. Above us are the special floors for the big wigs in the company.It's tough working under someone. Tires you out.
Is it just me or does the Conference Room smell? There's some sort of stench coming from somewhere...
Let's see... The specimen Hojo asked me for is...
Is this today's specimen?
No! Please don't kill me. I only did what Hojo told me to do.To prove it to you... here, this is the key card to the 68th Floor. Would I be doing this if I was the enemy?Received Key Item "Keycard 68"!
The man then flees.
If Cloud attempts to go anywhere but the elevator...

BarretWhere you goin'? Everyone's waitin' at the 66th Floor Elevator.
AerisNot that way! Everyone's on the 66th Floor Elevator.
TifaWhere are you going? Everyone's waiting for us at the 66th Floor Elevator.

Cloud and the others get on the 66th floor elevator. Rude of the Turks enters behind them.
CloudH, hey! What is it?
RudeWould you press 'Up' please?
CloudTurks? Must be a trap...
Rude steps aside and Tseng enters.
TsengIt must have been a real thrill for you... Did you enjoy it?
CloudGgh...
The Turks take them up to the 70th floor, where they find the others also taken captive. Aeris is missing, though.
CloudYou all got caught, too?Where is Aeris!?
President ShinraIn a safe place.She's the last surviving Ancient...Don't you know? They called themselves the Cetra, and lived thousands of years ago. Now they are just a forgotten page in history.
Red XIIICetra... That girl, is she a survivor of the Cetra?
President ShinraCetra, or the Ancients will show us the way to the 'Promised Land.' I'm expecting a lot out of her.
Red XIIIThe Promised Land? Isn't that just a legend?
President ShinraEven so, it's just too appealing to not to pursue.It's been said the Promised Land is very fertile....If the land is fertile...
BarretThen there's gotta be Mako!
President ShinraExactly. That is why our money sucking Mako Reactor is necessary.The abundant Mako will just come out on its own.That is where Neo-Midgar will be built. Shinra's new glory...
Barret@$#*^%! Quit dreamin'!
President ShinraOh really, don't you know? These days all it takes for your dreams to come true is money and power.Well, that is all for our meeting.
RudeCome on! Outta his way!
Cloud, Tifa, and Red XIII turn away without protest, but Barret hangs back.
BarretHold it! I got a lot I wanna say to you!
He starts towards President Shinra, but Rude drags him away.
President ShinraIf you need something else... talk to my secretary.
The scene changes to the detainment area, where they've been placed in cells. Cloud with Tifa, Barret with Red XIII, and Aeris by herself.
TifaPsst (Can we get out?)
Cloud- (Leave it to me)- (Kinda hard)

(Leave it to me)
TifaPsst (Cloud, you're so brave!)


(Kinda hard)
TifaPsst (Don't give up!)

CloudI wonder how Barret is doing
BarretHey!Aeris is an Ancient and the real name of the Ancients is Cetra.The Ancients know where the Promised Land is and the Shinra is searching for that Promised Land.I only heard stories 'bout the Promised Land. I don't know if it really exists.Is that right?The Shinra believe that the Promised Land is full of Mako energy.Which means, if the Shinra get there, they'll suck up all the Mako energy....and the land'll wither away. The Planet's gonna get weaker.I can't just leave 'em be. I'm recruitin' new members!!Me, Tifa, Cloud... and Aeris too.
He turns to Red XIII.
How 'bout you?
Red XIII turns away and lies down.
BarretYou're so damn boring.
CloudI wonder how Red XIII is doing
Red XIII............Grandpa.
BarretGrandpa!? Ha, ha, ha...... Grandpa, hmm...... ha, ha, ha......
Red XIIIWhat's so funny?
BarretNothin'...... ha, ha
CloudI wonder how Aeris is doing
AerisCloud, are you there?
CloudAeris!? You safe?
AerisYeah, I'm all right.I knew that Cloud would come for me.
CloudHey, I'm your bodyguard, right?
AerisThe deal was for one date, right?
Tifa sits up from where she's been lying on the cot.
Tifa............oh, I get it.
Aeris...!? Tifa! Tifa, you're there too!
TifaEXCUSE me.You know, Aeris. I have a question.
AerisWhat?
TifaDoes the Promised Land really exist?
Aeris...I don't know.All I know is...The Cetra were born from the Planet, speak with the Planet, and unlock the Planet.And...... then...The Cetra will return to the Promised Land. A land that promises supreme happiness.
Tifa...What does that mean?
AerisMore than words...... I don't know.
Cloud...Speak with the Planet?
TifaJust what does the Planet say?
AerisIt's full of people and noisy. That's why I can't make out what they are saying.
CloudYou hear it now?
AerisI, I only heard it at the Church in the Slums. Mother said that Midgar was no longer safe. That is... my real mother.Someday I'll get out of Midgar... Speak with the Planet and find my Promised Land....That's what mom said.I thought I would stop hearing her voice as I grew up, but...
CloudLet's just get some sleep
They settle down to rest. Cloud wakes before the others, finding the door to his and Tifa's cell open.
Tifa......
CloudThe door's open... When did it open?
He runs out into the hall to find the guard dead.
What's happened?
He runs back into the cell.
Tifa... Wake up!
She sits up immediately.
TifaWhat's wrong?
CloudSomething's wrong. Look outside.
Tifa runs out, and Cloud joins her.
TifaI wonder what happened...
CloudHe should have the key on him...Come on, Tifa, get Aeris. I'll go help Barret and the others.
Cloud runs into Barret and Red XIII's cell.
Barret, Red XIII... come with me. Something's wrong.
BarretHow'd you get in? Why's the door open!?
Barret and Red XIII run out.
TifaThis's kinda eerie...
AerisMust've been attacked by...
BarretThe hell's goin' on'!?
Red XIIINo human could've done this.I'll go on ahead.
BarretI'll clean up back here, so you guys go ahead. And don't get caught by Shinra!
TifaCome on, let's follow Red XIII!
Cloud, Aeris, and Tifa follow Red XIII to where the Jenova specimen was kept, finding a huge bloody hole in the front of the empty chamber, with a trail of blood across the floor.
Cloud...Did it get away? Jenova...?
Red XIIIJenova Specimen... Looks like it went to the upper floor using that elevator for the specimens.
Red XIII heads for the elevator and the others follow.
Red XIIIIt looks like it leads up...
They follow the trail of blood to the 70th floor, where they find President Shinra dead at his desk, impaled by the Masamune blade.
BarretHe's dead... The leader of Shinra, Inc. is dead...
Tifa runs around behind the desk.
TifaThen this sword must be...!?
CloudSephiroth's!!
Tifa...Sephiroth is alive?
Cloud...Looks like it. Only Sephiroth can use that sword.
BarretWho cares who did it!? This is the end of the Shinra now!
PalmerUh!
He comes out from behind a pillar and tries to run, but Cloud and Barret catch him.
P, p, p, please, don't kill me!
CloudWhat happened?
PalmerSe... Sephiroth. Sephiroth came.
CloudDid you see him? Did you see Sephiroth?
PalmerYeah, I saw him! I saw him with my own eyes!
CloudYou really saw him?
PalmerUh! Would I lie to you at a time like this!? And I heard his voice too!Um, he was saying something about not letting us have the Promised Land.
TifaThen what?Does that mean that the Promised Land really exists and that Sephiroth's here to save it from Shinra?
BarretSo he's a good guy then?
CloudSave the Promised Land? A good guy? No way!!It's not that simple! I know him! Sephiroth's mission is different!
Palmer frees himself and runs off as a helicopter arrives outside.
BarretRufus! &*%$! I forgot about him!
TifaWho's that?
BarretVice President Rufus. The President's son.I heard that he's been assigned somewhere else for a long time...
AerisI've heard that no one's ever seen him bleed or cry.
Red XIIII only know his name.
TifaI wonder what kinda person he is...
They run outside to where Rufus and Palmer are, Palmer apparently just finishing up a quick report.
RufusSo... So Sephiroth was actually here. ...By the way.
Palmer runs off.
RufusWho are you guys?
CloudI'm Cloud, former SOLDIER First Class!
BarretI'm from AVALANCHE!
TifaSame here!
Aeris...a flower girl from the slums.
Red XIII (growling)...a research specimen.
RufusWhat a crew.Well, I'm Rufus. The President of Shinra, Inc.
BarretYou only President, 'cause yer old man died!
RufusThat's right. I'll let you hear my new appointment speech....Old man tried to control the world with money. It seems to have been working.The population thought that Shinra would protect them.Work at Shinra, get your pay. If a terrorist attacks, the Shinra army will help you.It looks perfect on the outside.But, I do things differently.I'll control the world with fear. It takes too much to do it like my old man.A little fear will control the minds of the common people. There's no reason to waste money on them.
TifaHe likes to make speeches just like his father.
Cloud turns to Barret.
CloudGet outta this building with Aeris!
BarretWhat?
CloudI'll explain later! Barret! This is the real crisis for the Planet!
BarretThe hell's that supposed to mean?
CloudI'll tell you later! Just take my word for it now! I'll go after I take care of him!
BarretAwright, Cloud!
Barret and the others run back downstairs. Aeris hangs back.
AerisCloud... I just thought of something.
Tifa...I'll wait for Cloud! Everyone, get to the elevator!
Aeris nods, and she, Red XIII, and Barret run on.
AerisHmm, it's going to get pretty ugly from here on. We should check on our equipment.
They get on the elevator, and a combat robot attacks them from the other car. They defeat the robot and continue down.
Back to Cloud, as he and Rufus face off...
RufusWhy do you want to fight me?
CloudYou seek the Promised Land and Sephiroth.
RufusHm, exactly.Mm? Did you know that Sephiroth is an Ancient?
Cloud...A lot has happened. Anyway, I can't let either you or Sephiroth have the Promised Land!
RufusI see. I guess this means we won't become friends.
Cloud fights Rufus and his pet Dark Nation.
RufusHeh, heh, heh...
Ultimately, Rufus decides to beat a dignified retreat.
RufusHeh... That's all for today...
Rufus grabs hold of the helicopter and it flies off with him. Cloud runs downstairs to where Tifa is waiting.
TifaWhere's Rufus?
CloudI couldn't finish 'em. Looks like this's gonna get complicated.
Back to Aeris and the others as they arrive on the first floor. If you attempt to get back on any of the elevators (depending on the floor):
AerisQuickly! We'll escape out this way......Quickly, we can escape this way...Quickly, we have to get out of here...
They head for the front entrance.
BarretI'll go on ahead!
He runs out, firing his gun-arm, but soon comes back in.
*&^%(*... surrounded, huh?If I was alone this wouldn't be a thang but, I gotta reputation to protect.
AerisYou all get out while you can.It's not you they're after... it's me.
BarretYeah, well that ain't happenin'.You got caught up in this over Marlene. Now, it's my turn to watch out for you!Ok, playtime's over for you jackasses...
Aeris...thank you, Mr. Barret!
BarretWho you callin' Mr. Barret? That don't sound right!
Red XIIIWell then...If you are through talking, may I suggest that we think of a way to get out of here.
BarretHuh? Oh, oh yeah... You a cold man. Just like someone else 'round here I know.
Red XIIIDid you say something?
BarretNotta thing. So what're we gonna do?
TifaBarret!!
Tifa comes running down from upstairs.
BarretTifa! Where's Cloud?
TifaEveryone, over here!
BarretHuh? What's up? Where's Cloud?
TifaI'll tell you later! Hurry, Hurry!!
They all climb into the display truck and drive it out the window, following Cloud on the motorcycle. Shinra troops follow on motorcycles, but Cloud dispatches them with his sword. They reach the end of the road, and a large, armored tank/robot attacks from behind. They defeat the robot, and find themselves standing at the edge of Midgar.
BarretWell, what do we do now?
CloudSephiroth is alive. I... I have to settle the score.
BarretAnd that'll save the Planet?
Cloud...Seems like it.
BarretAwright, I'm going!
AerisI'll go too. ...I have things that I want to find out.
CloudAbout the Ancients?
Aeris......y things.
TifaI guess this's good bye, Midgar.
They climb down a cable to the ground level.
Red XIIII'm going back to my hometown. I'll go with you as far as that.
Tifa...I guess this is the start of our journey...
Cloud- You hate traveling?- It's dangerous. You sure you want to go?

You hate traveling?
Tifa...I don't know. But, I don't have anywhere else to go. So I guess it doesn't really matter whether I like to travel or not.


It's dangerous. You sure you want to go?
Tifa......Mmm. But you know, it should be all right if you keep your promise.

AerisYou know what? This is the first time I've ever left Midgar...
Cloud- Really? ...You worried?- It's dangerous. You sure you want to go?

Really? ...You worried?
AerisA little, ...no, maybe a lot. But I have my bodyguard, right?


It's dangerous. You sure you want to go?
AerisI thought you'd say that!

BarretWe told Aeris's mom to go somewhere safe, so Marlene should be safe too.
Cloud- Yeah, she should be- Hmm, I don't know

Yeah, she should be
AerisShe said she didn't want to stay in Midgar anymore. ...Maybe it's for the best.


Hmm, I don't know
AerisStop it, Cloud! I'm worried too.

CloudThen...- Let's stay here for a while- Let's go!
BarretWe need a group leader for our journey. 'Course only me could be the leader.
TifaYou think so...?
AerisIt would have to be Cloud.
Barret^#$^%...... awright. Go Northeast to a town called Kalm. If something happens, we'll meet up there.'Sides, we can't have 5 people strolling down the fields. It's too dangerous. Split us into 2 parties...

If Cloud chooses Aeris + Tifa for his party...
Barret...Thought you'd do that.Later, at Kalm!


If Cloud chooses Barret + Red XIII for his party...
Aeris...Unexpected
Tifa...combination.Well, have fun with just the guys.We'll see you at Kalm!

They otherwise depart without comment.

< Sector 5 | The Shinra Building | Kalm >
I heard President Shinra was killed. And his son Rufus, the new president, was badly hurt.Hey, I bet that's news to you?
Heh, heh, heh...... This is just between us. I heard it was that there Ava-whaddya call-ums that attacked the President Shinra and his son.
Don't care? If you're going to travel, you'd best keep an eye on what Shinra's doing.
Shinra is leading the world around by the nose, and you guys are just gonna sit back and take it?
Me? I used to work in a coal mine down south called Mythril MineBut, right around then, monsters started appearing.After that, business went to pot and now I spend the days here drinking.Urrrp! ...hic... I'm stinking drunk!!
We've been fighting the Shinra for a long time at this battlefield.Even now, we're still settled in for a long war with them.If you aren't in a hurry, would you help us fight them?Listen, we don't want to push you but, if you're in the middle of something, why don't you finish that first?
Let's see...... Head north along the coast, and keep going for a ways and you'll run into Junon.You gotta be careful 'cause it sits in the shadows of a small hill.
Really!? Then go on up and they'll fill you in on the details.
All right then...... Take care of yourselves...
Really!? Then go on up and they'll fill you in on the details.
Do you guys want to see it, too?
The condors. They're huge. Come on, have a look.
What do ya think? Awesome, huh?
So, will you help us? I don't want them to get killed.They're gigantic birds and so striking. We simply can't let them be killed by man's selfishness?Of course not. There's no way, especially at the hands of Shinra.If you're going to go look at them, get on top of that chair over there.
Thanks for accepting.Let me explain our strategy.The enemy will climb the mountain looking for the reactor. We will leave a trap for them and hire soldiers to protect the area.Well, that's all, but...... This village doesn't have any money. Even if we wanted to fight, our hands are tied 'cause we're broke.If we hired one soldier, we would need 400 gil. So, if we hire 20 soldiers, we must have 8000 gil.So if you folks have the time, we would like you to use your own money to hire these soldiers, buy the trap, set it up and command the troops.If you're pressed for time we'd like you to help us with the money.If you can give us the money, we can then hire soldiers with the funds and block Shinra's attack.We know that what we're asking is selfish.We have sent our wives and children to another village. We are resigned to our fate.Let's get back to square one. If the enemy penetrates our shed, you'll have to fight them immediately.Well, just because you lost once, it's not the end of the world, but if you lose repeatedly, it could be dangerous.Now then, is there anything you wish to ask?
You can win by wiping out the enemy or killing the enemy commander in charge.If the enemy reaches the shed, they'll attack, and you'll have no choice but to go into battle immediately.In the event that you lose during direct contact, even if the enemy gets to the reactor, there's still a chance to save things.But it's only a slight chance, and we have no idea how much the reactor can endure in an attack.When we can't stand up to the attack any longer, the Shinra will take both the condors and our lives, as well as all the materia within the reactor.
There are four types of enemies.- Wyverns- Beasts- Barbarians- Commanders- Anything else?
Wyverns are flying types that can move at high speed. Stoner and Tristoner aren't effective against them.
Beasts are monster types that do not move quickly, but have explosive attacking power.
Barbarians are human types. They attack indirectly, so you've got to be on your toes.
Commanders are the enemy commanders. They're the ones we want to subdue, but they're formidable foes.
Your mobile allies are: Fighters, Attackers, Defenders, Shooters, Repairers and Workers.Your immobile allies are: Stoner, Tristoner, Catapult, and Fire Catapult.Which do you want to hear about?
Which do you want to hear about?- Fighters- Attackers- Defenders- Shooters- Repairers- Workers- Anything else
Fighters are good at defending and attacking, but aren't especially efficient or deficient for any enemy.
Attackers move extremely fast and are best for expanding the front line.They work good against enemy Beasts, but not enemy Barbarians.
Defenders have high endurance, but move slowly. They're best suited for defense.Defenders work best against enemy Barbarians, but not enemy Wyverns.
Shooters attack indirectly, but has low endurance. Shooters work best against enemy Wyverns, but not enemy Beasts.
Repairers repair allied aircraft, but have little attacking power.
Workers set torpedoes. Torpedoes have strong attacking power, but Workers don't.Torpedoes explode when touched by the enemy. The explosions will damage everything in the immediate area.
Which do you want to hear about?- Stoners- Tristoners- Catapults- Fire Catapult- Anything else
Stoners can fire a single boulder, causing extensive damage to every enemy it hits.
Tristoners can fire three boulders simultaneously, causing extensive damage to every enemy it hits.We can't use the Tristoner or Fire Catapult, because they are still being developed.
Catapults shoot rocks a great distance. causing extensive damage to every enemy it hits.
Fire Catapults fire bombs a great distance. causing extensive damage to every enemy it hits.We can't use the Tristoner or Fire Catapult, because they are still being developed.
We have 12000 gil right now.We need 3000 gil for each battle.How much can you help?
(if Cloud gives any amount of money)Thanks. This makes [TOTAL] gil.
First off, we must prepare the troops.Move the cursor wherever the x mark does not appear, then press the O button to set-up.After all positions are in place, select by pressing the X button. This starts the battle.Soldiers can only be arranged near the shed, in the beginning.That's because if the soldiers are too far away, they won't be able to follow instructions.You can only put soldiers on the horizontal line at the very bottom.Soldiers can be instructed by pushing the select button. So if any commands are unclear, push it.Soldiers can report by pushing the O button......The cursor will move to the soldier who made the report.Press the X button and you'll hear the report without moving.And you can bet Shinra will send platoons at you on a regular basis.It would be great if you could spare the time to help us...But if you really don't have time, would you contribute some financial assistance.
Hey, this one climbing up here looks like they'd be just right. Please, any help is appreciated...Preparations ready?
I see, very well then. Maybe, we'll fight together again sometime.
You have 10 enemies. There appear to be many Beasts, so you may want to deploy more Attackers.
Whew, that was good. But Shinra's troops will be back.Be sure and scout the area well... we don't know when they'll attack again.We have X allies left, so here's X gil.Oh, yeah. I found this just now on the battlefield. Maybe it'll come in handy for you guys.
My God! They're attacking! We're counting on you.
We made it through that one somehow. But Shinra'll be back.Be sure and scout the area well... we don't know when they'll attack again.
Are you all right? Looks like a few got through.
How are things going? Seems like there's no activity at Shinra.
Perfect timing! They're just around the corner. Get ready.
How goes it? The Shinra troops have attacked X times since you were here.So we're getting a litttle short on funds.We have X gil right now.
What a fluffy bed...... feels so great......Mmm... Just a little longer......Oh!!Oh, I'm sorry...... I didn't know you were here. This is embarrassing.Take your time and look around.By the way, are you seriously considering buying?
That's pretty low. Are you pulling my leg?I'm talking about this house. This villa used to belong to President Shinra. It only recently came back on the market.How do you like it?It has a large lot, comes fully furnished with this goose-down bed, and there's even a basement to boot.The villagers call it the Shinra Villa.Of course, we're not giving it away...
Wha? How do you plan to buy it without a dime on you?Well, I'll tell the price just for your information.It's a steal at 300,000 gil. Out of your range? Out! Go on, out!Hmm... Is this some kind of joke?
Yes, you're right. I'm sorry, please continue.Well, what do you think? Isn't it a fabulous villa?The feeling you get with owning a villa is simply... how should I say? ...indescribable.Well, let's wait for the captain.
Yes, you're right. I'm sorry, please continue.Well, what do you think? Isn't it a fabulous villa?The feeling you get with owning a villa is simply... how should I say? ...indescribable.Well, let's wait for the captain.
'Praise the Lord,' it's a miracle!! Who'd ever think someone with some real money would ever come here...... I probably shouldn't even ask, but Are you really going to buy it?
Hmm, good-bye!! Good-bye fluffy bed!!
Oh well I'm kind of glad!
......HIC... Mm? Wanna order? We're outta that now.
Hey! How'd you ever wind up around here?Look, I'm sorry but, I can't do a thing for you!Oh boy!! Corel sure has gone to pot. It used to be a famous coal mining town!They say there were more jobs than you could shake a...Well, you get the picture!Now, it's nothing but a miserable pit! Me, my bulldozer... everything's out of work.Got no job... I can't even show my face. 'Bout all that's left for me is to just live in this hole all day.
You, you're...Hey!! He's back!
^%$#! You ain't even worth the effort.Don't waste your time talkin' to that Techno-freak!
Get out of the way!!The only way we can make ends meet around here now is by collecting junk!
I want to leave this garbage dump of a town behind me, and start a new life.If I had a buggy, I'd cross the southern desert, and go to that town across the river...
How am I supposed to continue living in a town that's lost everything...?To hell with the Mako reactor!
You can only buy up to 3 tickets. Think before you buy. For example, you could select half of the Chocobos and buy 3 boxes.
A box is buying 3 combinations of 2 chocobos.For example, if you select Chocobo 1, 3, and 5, you can purchase combinations, such as 1-3, 1-5, 3-5.You can also play the limited wheel by selecting a Chocobo.
Playing a 'Limited wheel' means you select a Chocobo and use it in all of your combinations.For example, if you have Chocobo 1, then you buy 1-2, 1-3, 1-4.No matter how you make your bet, you win some and you lose some. It all comes down to insight and luck.
Hey boy.
How is it? You having fun?Mmm, so, you ARE having fun. Well, good, good for you boy.
Hey, I finally got 5000 points.
, I finally got a prize...
Hey, I got 5000 points again.
Well, I guess I'll go and get some more GP.
Come on now, no running.
I'll tell you one thing, rookie. This desert is extremely dangerous.It'll welcome you in, but when you try to leave it, it'll swallow ya.I hear tell, some of them never make it out... the best thing is to stay out of the desert entirely.
, the Boss was REALLY in a bad mood today... Or was it one of his better days?If you get lost in the desert, just keep going Northeast. If you're lucky, you'll make it back here.
You new?
So this is Cosmo Canyon... Quite a mysterious place.Have you come to seek the 'Study of Planet Life'?
Yeah? I heard there's an awesome observatory here. I'd like to see it if I have a chance.
Oh yeah? What? The car broke down!?Why don't you look around Cosmo Canyon, while I fix the car?
Oh, really?There really isn't much else to see here.
The repair on your car is completed.Now you should be able to go where ever you want.
No charge! You'd do the same for me, right?
Are you sure...? Well, all right. Thank you.Oh yeah. Did you stay at the inn already?There was a bottle on the sofa there a couple of days ago... was it yours?
Mmm...... I think the teachings of the 'Study of Planet Life' are true.But can people used to Mako energy ever go back...?
Mmm, I'm so bored. Isn't there anything that can get me excited?
Sorry, but we're entirely sold out now.What's this here? Ah, no... that's uh......a sample! Yeah, that's it... a sample. Sorry, but why don't you all come back later?
Hey. Did you hear? There used to be a Water God here in Wutai.They say the Water God was a huge snake!Now we live in a world filled with Mako. Not many people would believe in something like that now.But some in the world, and here in Wutai, still believe.Believe in the scales of the Water God and in materia that has its power in it.
Listen, I'm sorry about last time. Yuffie told me not to sell anything to you.
Always the same story... Women never pay any attention to me...
A buncha guys called Turks came here sayin' they'd pay 10000 gil for some rock called a 'Keystone'.When I asked how much they'd pay for a regular rock just layin' around here, they slapped me upside my damn head!!
I heard that this is the curator's favorite attraction. He likes it so much that he even has his collection displayed in the arena.
Tonight's Enchantment Night! All the attractions are free.How 'bout it you two? There's going to be an entertaining show in Event Square!
Congratulations!!You are our 100th couple today!!You two will be the leads in tonight's show!!!!
Oh, now, it's not hard. Just play it however you want to and the rest of the cast will cover up for you.Come this way.
Tonight's Enchantment Night! All the attractions are free.How 'bout it you two? There's going to be an entertaining show in Event Square!
Congratulations!!You are our 100th couple today!!You two will be the leads in tonight's show!!!!
Oh, now, it's not hard. Just play it however you want to and the rest of the cast will cover up for you.Come this way.
Tonight's Enchantment Night! All the attractions are free.How 'bout it you two? There's going to be an entertaining show in Event Square!
Congratulations!!You are our 100th couple today!!You two will be the leads in tonight's show!!!!
Oh, now, it's not hard. Just play it however you want to and the rest of the cast will cover up for you.Come this way.
Tonight's Enchantment Night! All the attractions are free.How 'bout it you two? There's going to be an entertaining show in Event Square!
Congratulations!!You are our 100th couple today...... Oh, wait...... no you're not...... Sorry.
Do you know what a Cetra is?
Yeah, a Cetra lived in this town a long time ago.Her name was Ifalna, and she knew about a lot of things...
I heard she was abducted by the Shinra and was taken somewhere.
I want you to stop that talk about a Meteor falling on us!
Listen, I've worked hard till now... and you say Meteor's gonna smash everything to bits?Well, I ain't standin' around listenin' to fool talk like this. Makes a person lose the will to work, that's what it does!What're ya, dense? Something like that'll never happen? It's ridiculous!
Weapon and Meteor scared everyone else off, but I'm sittin' here soused as usual.
I don't understand what my boss is thinking!I'm gonna yell at him! I'm gonna scream my head off till it gets ugly!Isn't that what life's all about? What do you think?
Sitting around waiting for Meteor to come...... Why's it gotta fall on us?
Staring up at Meteor won't put food in my stomach.But if I look down, sometimes I find somethin' to eat.
Mmm...... I can't be standing here talking about the 'Study of Planet Life'.I think I'll be heading back to my homeland now...
Meteor's coming toward us!? And I can't even go to the bathroom...!?
This is a weapons store of the hard cores, by the hard cores, and for the hard cores! Come on and take a look, why doncha!?
Hey. Things look pretty sad around here.With things the way they are in the world I guess there's nothing I can do about it.Running around like a fool won't help matters any. So, we all might as well sit back and have a beer...
The reason for the drop in temperature must be because of that dome of light at the Northern limits...You all should get away from here and go to a place like Mideel Island in the south.
With all the strange things happening in the world, I kinda understand why people want to leave...
Everything must come to an end. And someday it's gonna be your turn. Even the world's gotta end sometime.Everybody leaves at one time or another. And everyone gets left also. That's just fate...It's sad, but there's nothing that can be done about it. So that's why I'm prayin' like this for all of you.
Shinra soldiers came around sayin' they were gathering up all the Huge Materia.I think they're gonna bring it here by coal train, from the Corel Reactor.
You guys are really something!
To you it may be a junk yard, but to us its home.
To hell with Meteor! We're Coal Miners, ain't we?We'll dig a deep tunnel and hide from the Meteor!
Must've been a horrific battle. You have scars all over your body.I already talked to the Inn's owner, today you can rest for free.
I don't want to die, but who can stop Meteor?
Whenever I look up in the sky, I see Meteor staring me right in the face......If you're comin' down, then hurry up do it!! 'Cause I'm gonna kick the $#@& outta ya!
The town is in shambles...... and Meteor is falling our way...
God, what have we done...?Well, no use just sitting around talking about it. What can we do to get things back to normal?
We've been fighting the Shinra for a long time at this battlefield.Even now, we're still settled in for a long war with them.If you aren't in a hurry, would you help us fight them?Listen, we don't want to push you but, if you're in the middle of something, why don't you finish that first?
All right then...... Take care of yourselves...
Really!? Then go on up and they'll fill you in on the details.
Do you guys want to see it, too?
The condors. They're huge. Come on, have a look.
What do ya think? Awesome, huh?
So shall I let you in on our strategy?The enemy is targeting this mountain's reactor and will be climbing to reach it.We must set a trap and hire soldiers to protect this place.Well, this is all we have...... this village doesn't have any money. Even if we wanted to fight, our hands are tied 'cause we're broke.To hire one soldier, we need 400 gil. So, if we hire 20 soldiers, we must have 8000 gil.That is, we would like you to use your own money to hire these soldiers, buy the trap, set it up and give the commands.We know that we're asking is selfish. We sent our wives and kids to another village. We are resigned to our fate.Let's get back to square one. If the enemy penetrates this shed, you'll have to fight them off immediately.I know it's a one shot deal, but I'm asking for your help.Now then, is there anything you wish to ask?
Ready?
The situation has changed. Looks like the enemy is set to attack. If we lose here, it's over.Our lives are in your hands. We're counting on you.Ready?
This is the deciding battle. The enemy numbers more than ever before.
YES! We did it! That was wonderful! Thank you!! I doubt Shinra will attack now.
Th, that light just now......The condor......The eggs......What!?Would you go outside and see what it was?
Gone...Be sure and report to my father, too.Oh, it's you. Thanks a lot.
...... Even if you could only spare them......
Even with all this goin' on outside, that guy still won't come out of the bathroom? He must be a damn water tank!?
Mmmmm, a SPECTACLE.
Mmmm, here comes some hard action!
OK, which is it gonna be? Meteor hits us first, or that guy comes out of the bathroom?I'm not movin' from this spot till I see it with my own eyes.
Even the rocket launch wasn't all THAT great.
Sephiroth put up a huge barrier around the North Crater.Rufus wants to use a mammoth cannon to smash the barrier.He plans to have Shinra troops rush in and attack Sephiroth after the barrier falls.
Hey, how 'bout it, change your gil into GP?
Hey, thanks 1 GP is 100 gil.Is x gil okay?
If you want some more later, I'll be around now and then.
Hey, since the prizes changed, I got 5000 points again.
, I finally got a prize...
Hey! This is your food.
The North Crater barrier's been demolished?So now's the time to defeat Sephiroth.
