.........today the No. 1 Reactor was bombed. The terrorist group AVALANCHE has claimed responsibility for the bombing.It is expected that AVALANCHE will continue its reign of terror.But citizens of Midgar, there is no need to fear.I have immediately mobilized SOLDIER to protect our citizenry against this senseless violence. Thank you and good night.
Hmm... So you all must be that... ...what was it?
...Long time no see? Oh... you.You're the one who quit SOLDIER and joined AVALANCHE. I knew you'd been exposed to Mako, from the look in your eyes...Tell me, traitor... what was your name?
Forgive me for asking, but I can't be expected to remember each person's name.Unless you become another Sephiroth.Yes, Sephiroth... He was brilliant. Perhaps too brilliant...
And such a waste of good fireworks, just to get rid of vermin like you...
...You are beginning to bore me.I'm a very busy man, so if you'll excuse me... I have a dinner I must attend.
But, I've made arrangements for a playmate for you all.
Meet 'Airbuster', a techno-soldier. Our Weapon Development Department created him.I'm sure the data he'll extract from your dead bodies will be of great use to us in future experiments.
Now then, if you'll excuse me.
How are the preparations going?
What's the problem, Reeve? You want out?
You're tired. Why don't you take a couple of days off and go somewhere.
We'll destroy Sector 7 and report that AVALANCHE did it. Then we'll send in the rescue operation care of Shinra, Inc....Heh, heh, heh... this is perfect.
We're not rebuilding.
We're leaving Sector 7 as it is.And restarting the Neo-Midgar plan.
The Promised Land will soon be ours.I want you to raise the Mako rates 15% in every area.
Reeve and Scarlet will divide the extra income from the rate increase.
It'll be all right.The ignorant citizens won't lose confidence, they'll trust Shinra, Inc. even more.
Hojo. How's the girl?
How long will the research take?
What about the Promised Land? Won't it hinder our plans?
That concludes our meeting.
In a safe place.She's the last surviving Ancient...Don't you know? They called themselves the Cetra, and lived thousands of years ago. Now they are just a forgotten page in history.
Cetra, or the Ancients will show us the way to the 'Promised Land.' I'm expecting a lot out of her.
Even so, it's just too appealing to not to pursue.It's been said the Promised Land is very fertile....If the land is fertile...
Exactly. That is why our money sucking Mako Reactor is necessary.The abundant Mako will just come out on its own.That is where Neo-Midgar will be built. Shinra's new glory...
Oh really, don't you know? These days all it takes for your dreams to come true is money and power.Well, that is all for our meeting.
If you need something else... talk to my secretary.
