Just what the hell's going on!?
Huh? The hell are you? The hell do ya think you're talkin' to!!
...And then...
I'm gonna get another Pharmacy Coupon today.
Umm... I just LOVE men with a sense of duty. Let me stay here with you.
Scary, isn't it? You just never know when the plate might come crashing down.
Aw, c'mon! listen to me! Got anything interesting to say?......
Listen to me! Just now, some guy in a black cloak goes walked east towards that grassy field.And he's got this killer sword, and is looking REAL scary......
I won't charge you for a smile...
That's how you can find out a Chocobo's condition and strengths.
Well, not as easy as you think. It's not just a matter of the Chocobo's strength,but it also depends on the jockey and the Chocobo's personality.If these are bad, they may use too much stamina, and affect other things.
First, I gotta memorize the order it comes out, and then guess on the attacks...... mumble, mumble......
Three years ago when the reactor exploded, my husband...Do people really need reactors to live?Aren't there more important things in life...?
That rusted out rocket is all that remains of the Shinra's Space Program.
Oh, it's you? I heard you and the Captain really made a BANG!I also heard that Rufus was so pissed off he went on a rampage and that no one's been able to get near him!
I heard some guy went to the Great Glacier in the North.What an idiot. Is he thinkin' 'bout going to that hot spring?
Huh? You're looking for your friend? You want to know where the Lifestream is?Let's see, I can't help you with your friend, but I've heard about the Lifestream.When I traveled to the southern islands, a doctor was very kind to me. I seem to recall him telling me something about the Lifestream......
I won't charge you for a smile...
Life Stream? Never heard of it.The Planet's structure? ...Who cares about that?Why don't you go ask Bugenhagen of Cosmo Canyon hard questions like that?
If things go on like this, then Meteor's just going to smash right into us and kill us all, right? ......I guess that's life?
Hey, listen to me! The Shinra troops are on the move.The TV news said Rufus came up with 2 plans. One, is to launch a rocket into space containing Huge Materia......Is Huge Materia really that destructive?
Seems like the Shinra is planning something big to destroy Meteor...I heard they're going to do something with all that big materia they've been gathering...After what happened with the reactor you can't trust Shinra.
...gulp... (Great... there went two perfectly good men!)
The Shinra serious 'bout launching that piece of crap rocket? But why now...?
I get so restless now that the rocket's gone. And now that we can see Meteor clearly, ...I can't stand it.
Listen to me! Something really big's happening in Midgar.They were just saying on TV it was Rufus second strategy and...That big cannon's pointed due north...... You think the target's...... Sephiroth?
I'm gonna use all my life savings before Meteor hits!
...Everyone's going to die. Everything's coming to an end.
Hey, listen to me! I heard the barrier protecting Sephiroth is gone!But with Rufus dead, the Shinra troops don't know what to do. Heidegger and Scarlet don't have what it takes to lead the troops......I really thought something was finally going to get done, but everything's the same... not a damn thing's changed!
