So... So Sephiroth was actually here. ...By the way.
Who are you guys?
What a crew.Well, I'm . The President of Shinra, Inc.
That's right. I'll let you hear my new appointment speech....Old man tried to control the world with money. It seems to have been working.The population thought that Shinra would protect them.Work at Shinra, get your pay. If a terrorist attacks, the Shinra army will help you.It looks perfect on the outside.But, I do things differently.I'll control the world with fear. It takes too much to do it like my old man.A little fear will control the minds of the common people. There's no reason to waste money on them.
Why do you want to fight me?
Hm, exactly.Mm? Did you know that Sephiroth is an Ancient?
I see. I guess this means we won't become friends.
Heh, heh, heh...
Heh... That's all for today...
How's the job?What happened to the Airship?
Even the Air Force's Gelnika?
Stop that stupid horse laugh.Things are different than when father was in charge.
Is the ship ready?
Well done.Keep up the good work for Shinra, Inc.
Very entertaining. Keep up the good work.
Looks like you need more practice.With things looking like this, you better be ready for pay cuts...
Once the word gets out that Sephiroth's here, Cloud and his friends will show up, too.
We can't have them get in our way.
I thought I told you to stop that stupid laugh...
What a long boat ride that was!!Hmmm...... Good work everyone......
I heard Sephiroth was on board.
And it seems Cloud and the others were on board, too.
They all slipped through...... You messed up big this time, Heidegger.
Is that all you can do...?Give one word answers and apologize for everything?
......Do something. I'll be expecting results.
I want to borrow the Tiny Bronco.We're going after Sephiroth. But seems like we've been going in the wrong direction.But now, we think we know where he's headed. But, we have to cross the ocean. That's why we want your plane...
Oh my...You seem to forget it was because of Shinra, Inc. that you were able to fly in the first place.
So, I finally found you.
But, I'll be the one who gets it.Sorry, old man.
The outside is rich with mako energy. The inside is a treasure trove of Materia. This truly is the Promised Land.
Everything's as I imagined it to be. Isn't it splendid?It is that kind of dullness that makes you a second-rate scientist.
What's happening?
What does this mean?
I never saw that report... Where is it?
You keep a lot of things to yourself.
Hmm... maybe we should go back to our ship now.We need to prepare for the inspection anyway.
Leave things to you? Hmph... I don't know what you mean.
Who... was that?
Whatever I say now is too little... too late...... We must evacuate.I want you all to come with me. There is still much more I want to hear.
I thought Cloud would show up to save you all...Professor Hojo wanted to check up on Cloud, too.
Sephiroth's alter ego...Meteor has been summoned... Essentially, it's all but over now.So, there's no need for you now.No, maybe there is an important task for you...
You are to be executed for causing this situation.People are ignorant. They'll feel better as long as someone is punished.
Well, enjoy your last moments together.
There's been so many attacks lately. Can we handle it?
No need to ask.
Did we get 'em?
How about the cannon?
Then use regular fire power in the mean time!
Now then...... We're faced with two issues.1 Destroy Meteor. 2 Remove the barrier around North Cave and defeat Sephiroth.Any ideas?
Well......
You're going to ram Meteor?Do you think we have the technology to do it?
......That's why, Reeve. It's your job to adjust the reactor's output.
Will the shells really reach the far northern border?
(laughing)......Fire.
