Something stinks...
Right, everything is Mako, now.It'll be all right, Dyne. Shinra, Inc. will guarantee your livelihood once the Mako Reactor is completed.
Kyaa haa, ha!!You can shoot all day and never hit them with aim like that.
Haa, ha, ha!! Stop playing around and cover me!!
......Hmph! This isn't any good either.You only get junky materia from junky reactors.This reactor's a failure.What I'm looking for is big, large, huge materia. You seen any?
Please. We could make the ultimate weapon if we only had some.
With Hojo gone, the Weapon Development's been betting a bigger budget.
But, even if we make the perfect weapon, could that stupid Heidegger even use it?
Oh... sorry! I forgot Heidegger was your boss! Ha ha ha!
Let's go!
Kyaa haa hah.Kyaa haa hah.haa hahhaa......... hahThis is incredible......
Wow!! That's amazing!It's all Materia!!
It's coming from within the wall! Something's in there! It's moving!
Mr. President... I've got a bad feeling about this place...
Hey!!! Where did you come from?
Is everyone here? These are the ones who brought this madness into the world!
We will be broadcasting your miserable deaths live on national television.
With the chaos resulting from the Meteor reports, we desperately need to rally public support... it's better that we punish somebody, anybody.
Ha, ha, ha, ha!They'll never admit it, but everyone loves this stuff!We'll start with this girl.
Camera, this way! Make sure you get this, the audience just eats up tearful goodbyes!
This is my special gas chamber. Take your time, and enjoy a slow painful death.
Stuck up ^%$#&!!
Well now, the show's about to begin. Ha, ha, ha!
Hey, hey, all of you!Damn! Why now?
Hmm, so you didn't run? I'm impressed. How do I feel? Right now......Nngaaaaaahhhh!
......Fools...... I've already pushed... the switch...
(from inside)Fools. Now, you can't save the girl.Ha, ha, ha, ha!!
What d'you do? Hey! Open it!
Our little game of hide and seek ends here.The execution may have been unsuccessful, but your death by falling from here and crashing into the water below still might be pretty exciting.
(as she slaps Tifa)How can you!?You!!That hurts!That's enough!
(if she loses)God! I can't stand it!
Take her away.Now it's time to pay up. I'll really drop you if you don't settle down!Ha, ha, ha, ha!
Huge Materia is a high density special type of materia made through a special compression process in Mako reactors.The energy extracted from it is 330 times the strength of normal materia.Ha, ha, ha! How about that!?We will gather all the Huge Materia together and ram it into Meteor.That will cause a huge explosion!! Reducing Meteor literally to bits.
Don't worry about that!More importantly, we've got to collect Huge Materia from each area.
Hah, hah, hah! Don't worry about adjusting it, Reeve.Once you open it up all the way everything will go full speed!
Please remember, Mr. President...It was my idea to fire Mako reactor powered shells.
Ah, hah hah!Of course!But Mr. President, please do not call it a Mako cannon.This new weapon will be called......The Sister Ray!
Hah, hah, hah!Anytime is fine.
Ha, ha, ha. What is it Reeve? You're speaking strangely.
Ww, wait a minute. That's not wise!It must cool for 3 hours or it won't work. Reeve, shut off the machine!
Ha, ha, ha.Heidegger! Now I'm going to use the new weapon!
You killed off a lot of my precious soldiers!
You guys are worthless, but my proud creation is a sure thing!
I'll show you the destructive power of the Proud Clod!
Not that! This is the proud Clod.........!?
