Hey.Settle down.
...just like a kid.
...this isn't a typical mission.
Why do you say that?
...I thought you wanted a briefing?
Our mission is to investigate an old Mako reactor.There have been reports of it malfunctioning, and producing brutal creatures.First, we will dispose of those creatures. Then, we'll locate the problem and neutralize it.
The Mako Reactor at Nibelheim.
Hmm... hometown...
That would be our Monster...
How does it feel?It's your first time back to your hometown in a long time, right?So how does it feel?I wouldn't know because I don't have a hometown...
My mother is Jenova. She died right after she gave birth to me. My father...
The Mako smell is pretty bad here.
We leave for the reactor at dawn. Make sure you get to sleep early.
Oh, that's right...You may visit your family and friends.
...This scenery...... I feel like I know this place.
............We have an early start tomorrow. You should get some sleep soon.
...I'm not going to wake you up tomorrow.
I've hired a guide to the Mako reactor.I've heard she's young, I hope we can rely on her...
Hey, stay over here!
Hey, calm down! Wait over here.
Once the guide gets here, we're heading out.
...Trust me.
Then there's no problem if you protect her....Let's go.
Everyone seems to be all right. Can we get back to where we were?
It may sound cold, but we've got no time to search for him. We can't go back now, so we must go on. We'll travel together from here.
It must be the Mako energy. This mountain is especially abundant in it. That's why the Mako Reactor was built here.
A Mako fountain. It's a miracle of nature.
Materia. When you condense Mako energy, materia is produced.It's very rare to be able to see materia in its natural state.
You were in SOLDIER and didn't even know that?...the knowledge and wisdom of the Ancients is held in the materia.Anyone with this knowledge can freely use the powers of the Land and the Planet. That knowledge interacts between ourselves and the planet calling up magic...... or so they say.
Ha, ha, ha!
A man once told me never to use an unscientific term such as mysterious power! It shouldn't even be called 'magic'!I still remember how angry he was.
Hojo of Shinra, Inc. ... An inexperienced man assigned to take over the work of a great scientist.He was a walking mass of complexes.
Only authorized people are allowed in. This place is full of Shinra's industrial secrets.
Take care of the lady.
This is the reason for the malfunction. This part is broken.Cloud, close the valve.Did you close the valve?
Why did it break...?
Right, normally. But Hojo put something else in there. ...Take a look.Look through the window.
Normal members of SOLDIER are humans that have been showered with Mako.You're different from the others, but still human.But, what are they? They've been exposed to a high degree of Mako, far more than you.
Exactly. And it's Hojo of Shinra that produced these monsters.Mutated living organisms produced by Mako energy. That's what these monster's really are.
N... no.........Was I?
...Was I created this way too?Am I the same as all these monsters......
You saw it! All of them... were humans...
...I've always felt since I was small...That I was different from the others. Special, in some way.But... not like this...
...an organism that was apparently dead, was found in a 2000 year old geological stratum.Professor Gast named that organism, Jenova...X Year, X Month, X Day. Jenova confirmed to be an Ancient...X Year, X Month, X Day. Jenova Project approved. The use of Mako Reactor 1 approved for use...
Let me be alone.
Ha, ha, ha......
Who is it!?Hmph... traitor.
You ignorant traitor. I'll tell you.This Planet originally belonged to the Cetra. Cetra was a itinerant race. They would migrate in, settle the Planet, then move on...At the end of their harsh, hard journey, they would find the Promised Land and supreme happiness.But, those that disliked the journey appeared. Those who stopped their migrations built shelters and elected to lead an easier life.They took that which the Cetra and the planet had made without giving back one whit in return!Those are your ancestors.
Long ago, disaster struck this planet.Your ancestors escaped... They survived because they hid.The Planet was saved by sacrificing the Cetra. After that, your ancestors continued to increase.Now all that's left of the Cetra is in these reports.
Don't you get it?An Ancient named Jenova was found in the geological stratum of 2000 years ago.The Jenova Project.The Jenova Project wanted to produce people with the powers of the Ancients...... no, the Cetra....I am the one that was produced.
Yes.Professor Gast, leader of the Jenova Project and genius scientist, produced me.
Out of my way. I'm going to see my mother.
Mother, I'm here to see you. Please, open this door.
Mother, let's take this planet back together.I've thought of a great idea. Let's go to the Promised Land.
Ha, ha, ha...... They've come again, mother.With her superior power, knowledge, and magic, Mother was destined to become the ruler of this Planet.But they...Those worthless creaturesare stealing the planet from MotherBut now I'm here with youso don't worry
Ha, ha, ha... my sadness? What do I have to be sad about?I am the chosen one. I have been chosen to be the leader of this Planet.I have orders to take this planet back from you stupid people for the Cetra. What am I supposed to be sad about?
......After a long sleep......the time.........time has...... come...
......Who are you?
Cloud...
...the time...... is now...
Being here brings back memories.Are you going to participate in the Reunion?
Jenova will be at the Reunion. Jenova will join the Reunion becoming a calamity from the skies.
...I see. I don't think you have the right to participate.I will go North past Mt. Nibel. If you wish to find out... then follow...
So you opened the door. Well done.
A lost treasure house of knowledge. The wisdom of the Ancients...I am becoming one with the Planet.
You stupid fools. You have never even thought about it.All the spirit energy of this Planet. All its wisdom... knowledge...I will meld with it all. I will become one with it... it will become one with me.
The way...... lies here.
So cold.I am always by your side.Come.
Splendid.A treasure house of knowledge...
Look well.
At that which adds to the knowledge of...I am becoming one with the Planet.
(swinging the Masamune)It's simple.Once the Planet is hurt, it gathers Spirit Energy to heal the injury.The amount of energy gathered depends on the size of the injury.
Behold that mural. The Ultimate Destructive Magic... Meteor.
...Ah, but I have.I'm far superior to the Ancients.I became a traveler of the Lifestream and gained the knowledge and wisdom of the Ancients.I also gained the knowledge and wisdom of those after the extinction of the Ancients.And soon, I will create the future.
Ha, ha, ha... I wonder?Wake up!
There, Cloud... good boy.
......Well done.
(arms raised)Do not worry. Soon the girl will become part of the Planet's energy.All that is left is to go North. The 'Promised Land' waits for me over the snowy fields.There, I will become a new being by uniting with the planet. As will this girl......
What are you saying? Are you trying to tell me you have feelings too?
Ha, ha, ha...... Stop acting as if you were sad.There's no need to act as though you're angry either.
This is the end... for all of you.
You're right. This is the end of this body's usefulness.
All right, let's go.
I see you finally understand.
Oh, is that so?You are just a puppet... You have no heart... and cannot feel any pain...How can there be any meaning in the memory of such a being?What I have shown you is reality. What you remember, that is the illusion.
...Do you understand?
Ha, ha, ha......I want to take you back to your real self.The one who gave me the Black Materia that day...Who would have ever thought a failed experiment would prove so useful?Hojo would die if he knew.
Five years ago you were......constructed by Hojo, piece by piece, right after Nibelheim was burnt.A puppet made up of vibrant Jenova cells, her knowledge, and the power of Mako.An incomplete -clone. Not even given a number. ...That is your reality.Ha, ha, ha......
Ha, ha, ha... Tifa...Why are you so worried and scared by those words?Hmm... Shall I show everyone here what's in your heart?
Ha, ha, ha... You look like you're not feeling well.
Cloud... Don't blame Tifa.The ability to change one's looks, voice, and words, is the power of Jenova.Inside of you, Jenova has merged with Tifa's memories, creating you.Out of Tifa's memory......A boy named Cloud might've just been a part of them.
Ha, ha, ha...... Think, Cloud!...Cloud? Ha, ha, ha...... Oh, excuse me. You never had a name...
You still don't understand? Then...
...the Black Materia!
How does it feel?
It's your first time back to your hometown in a long time, right?So how does it feel?I wouldn't know because I don't have a hometown...
My mother is Jenova. She died right after she gave birth to me. My father...
What does it matter...?All right, let's go.
All right, let's go.
Aaarrrgh...... who... who are you?
How does it feel?It's your first time back to your hometown in a long time, right?
Just like you.
Don't... push... your luck...
...It can't be!
