Hmm, hmm, hmm......Ohhh, I just can't seem to lose weight. Hmm, hmm, hmm...Sir!! You can't come in here.(Yuk...... a pervert...)Oh my!! (...You're still here? Oh well, good timing anyway.)Hey, what do you think about me?
NO WAY! I'M SO SHOCKED!!Hmm, hmm, hmm, hmm...... Hmm, hmm, hmm, hmm... Hmm, hmm, hmm, hmm...Phew...... ...it's so tiring.Oh!!Is something the matter?
OH......!!
Hmph......!! Listen you, not that it matters, but you sure do know how to make people mad.
Oh my!! Are you embarrassed? (Man!! Why are you so moody...)
Honey...... Buy me that car!
What did you say?
I don't remember seeing your face before... You new here?Say, you're cute. Let me teach you some... things.
Wipe that stupid look off your face. I was only going to teach you how to get to the next floor.The higher ups in the company use the floors above the 60th floor. But you can't get there without a keycard.Get a keycard and you can use the elevators freely.
Oh? That's too bad...
Come on, we're building the future of Mako!
The famous floating city, Midgar... Just once I'd love to see it in person.South of this town past the Mythril Mine and far to the west is a Shinra harbor called Junon.They say there's a reactor and many tall buildings there. I hope to see it someday.
Thanks to Mako energy, life's pretty darn convenient. Thanks to Shinra.Don't you think?
See!? How would we get by without Mako energy?
Hmmn. But I'd hate to think of what life'd be like without Mako energy.
Yeah, Mako energy's made our lives much easier. And it's all thanks to Shinra, Inc.
There was a suspicious-looking man in a black cloak! He was carrying a wicked-looking sword.Why doesn't anyone believe me? I'm all alone...
Is it true that Shinra made a Monster?
(she says the same thing regardless)Yeah, well either way, as long as we're using the reactor, we can't stand up to Shinra.
Welcome.Hey? Aren't you...
Welcome.Oh, oh, you're...
Wow, now this is rare. We almost never have anyone other than the Shinra people visit this town.I know you guys want to go to the Western Continent, but the only way is on a Shinra ship.
(waiting outside her house)Hey, come in for a while.
I heard what happened. You've done so much for Priscilla.You all must be tired. If you want to get some rest, stay here.Make yourselves at home.
For the past few decades, the only thing I've been hearing about is the Shinra.I miss the times when we used to talk only about fish...
God!! What do you want?
(Hey, who do you think you are?)Professor Hojo. That scary man says he wants to talk with you.
(What's his problem?)Yes, that's right. It's the Professor!Professor... someone's here to see you, sir.
He never takes off his lab coat even in this heat. I guess that's the mark of an intellectual.
That's right!! It totally skipped my mind!There was something I was supposed to tell you.That's right! It's about that!It was yesterday. A man wearing a black cloak came up from the ocean.I think he had tickets for the Gold Saucer... no, that wasn't it... I wonder if it was all just an illusion?
Everyone knows that accident couldn't have been avoided.But no one will be satisfied until someone takes the blame.
Because of them...... ugh. My husband got into that accident... He used to be such a strong man...
Hey, what's that Chocobo on the odds sheet?
Hmm, If you can tell which ones are the strongest, then it's easy...
I'm sorry, we're currently renovating. Please come again.
Wow!! You're so wonderful!!
Wow!! You're so wonderful!!
Ugh, ugggh.
Ugh... ugh... a man with a gun... on his arm......
Oh man, I'm so busy. I need more help. Mummer... complaint...
Those two... uh, Anyway, are you two friends? It really seems strange.
All right, all right. I'm making it right now....But I wonder which one is going to eat...
Nice town, huh?We've been in business here for a long time...
Do you have anything to do with this town?
It's not nice to lie!!
Oh yeah...?
What is it?
Oh, really. Then, it'll help me too.
Are you sick... saying those things?Get out of here!
Geeeeez, it's boring! Isn't anything exciting going to happen here?
I'm sorry. The sign outside says "Materia", but there's almost no materia left anywhere in Wutai.Listen, this is just a backwoods town. We don't have much to do with Shinra, and besides...If we had a lot of materia, Wutai would be a much more exciting town, but we don't...
Huh? What? You DID?
If this is your idea of flirting... forget it. I do fine as it is.
Are you here for the battle, too?
I like fighters. But hate those who're all talk.
Is that so.
We came from Costa del Sol to snowboard, but we're just about to leave!
Welcome! You look like a STRONG one...If you want, I could lend you an ear...?
I got bored listening to his stories.
What's with you!? You make me sick!
Oh yeah?
My boy got hurt right about the time we moved here...I never should've bought him a snowboard.
They say the meteor is going to fall, but it's okay! I'm sure Shinra will come through for us in the end and do something!
Oh man, oh man!A meteor's gonna fall on us, and now there's some big huge monster the likes of which I've never seen just wandering around out there!What's going to happen to all of us!!?
Even if Meteor falls, If you're in Midgar, you ought to be safe.They say it's a "Mako Metropolis" so they should survive somehow......
The meteor's coming, right? Where am I going to stash my money...? Wait, maybe I'd better take it with me and get out of here!
I almost passed out when I saw Weapon.It seems Weapon was beaten, but a Shinra soldier told me there are 4 more.
Why don't you surround yourself with young girls and have some fun... maybe for the last time.
It's getting closer and closer. Someone will do something, don't you think?
Hmm... I wonder what's going to happen now...
What's going to happen to this planet!? What the hell's Shinra doing!?
And now it's too late to be worrying about materia at this stage of the game...If you see anything you need, buy it.
I don't think I could live in this town. It gets so cold here!I have to move again... I don't know where to start.
Grandma's been sick for a while and doesn't have much energy lately...
You say you don't know when the stars are gonna fall outta the sky? Is that for real?I still don't believe it! How could this be happen?
Huh? Never seen you here before. You from outta town? How're things on the outside?Between the earthquakes and Meteor...... It just might be the end of the world like everyone's been sayin'...Oh, how depressing! What a miserable world this is......
Is Meteor really going to crash down on us......?I'm still young...... I'll never marry again.This memento is all I have left of my husband... I'll give it to you if you'll please stop Meteor...
You saved my life. Not that I have much longer to live anyway...
Is Meteor really going to crash down on us......?I'm still young...... I'll never marry again.This memento is all I have left of my husband... I'll give it to you if you'll please stop Meteor...
It's bad enough with earthquakes and Meteor, but on top of all that now the Lifestream has become active again, too.I hope it doesn't blow and cause a panic like it did before. That was really bad, I tell ya.
They say Shinra's gathering Huge Materia from around the world and bringing it to Junon.Bringing it to Junon must mean they want to use their airplanes.I've noticed there's been a lot of Shinra ships recently. I think they're going to the off-shore Underwater Reactor.Isn't Shinra trying to transport the Reactor's Huge Materia?
Is something about to happen? Oh, I'm getting excited.
What? You guys are terrorists? Wow, that's kinda exciting!
Now that one of Shinra's greatest events is over, I guess it's back to the same old boring everyday life again...
Is Gramps gonna stay like that even though rocket's gone?
I heard a war's about to start! And that's why they're moving the big cannon!
Wow!! You're so wonderful!!
No need to be sad, even if something should happen. Everything will return to the planet... Bugenhagen says so.Just the thought of something happening to Bugenhagen... worries me.
Dear, can you believe it!? They say that Shinra's gone under!!This world is coming to an end all because those terrorists called AVALANCHE stuck their noses in the wrong place!
