Insurgents!? Here!? Sound the alarum!
We don't have time for this! Put them down!
Hold on, Krile... We're coming...
The Resonatorium is just ahead!
They know we're coming. Make ready, my friends!
I reckoned you lot would come, but I didn't think you'd have the nerve to break the bloody doors down! Makes no difference to me, though─time to die!
I can read your every move!
Use the siphon, Forename! Use it now!
Gah! Seven hells, my head... The pain!
It's working! Strike now, while she's weak!
Out of my way!
Dammit, she won't stay down! Use the siphon again!
Graaagh! You'll...you'll pay for that...
Keep at it! We almost have her!
Enemy sighted, engaged with the commander! With me!
Thancred! Help me hold off those soldiers!
Understood! We leave the pilus in your capable hands!
Heh heh heh... So it's to be the two of you after all...
Let's finish this!
If only you knew the power!
Still got that siphon, Forename!? Then use it!
Not here, not now... Not to you...
No... Not after everything... I cannot lose... I will not!
Oh, but you will. Without your tricks, you're nothing!
Conrad, Meffrid, your own comrades!I should kill you here and now for what you did!
But there's no place for that kind of justice here. Not in my Ala Mhigo.
Oh, how very bloody noble of you! Pffft. You'll pardon me my sins, will you? After you and your “freedom fighters” come and tear down everything we've worked so hard to build!? We were fighting for our people's freedom!
You're slaves to a tyrant! There's no freedom in that!
Now, my friend!
Krile!
Alphinaud...?
...I knew you'd come.
Touching as this moment is, it will have to wait. We should rejoin the main force at once.
Lyse!
I'm taking her back with us. Alive. She's going to answer for what she's done.
Heh heh heh...listen to you, talking like you've already won. Zenos is going to tear you apart. He commands a power echoing that of the eikons.
What are you talking about?
The hunt, you stupid cow─I'm talking about the hunt! He said you'd come. And here you are, his willing prey.
You and your friends are dead─just like mine. And all our misery, all our sacrifice...it was all for naught!
...No. You're gonna live long enough to see us win our freedom.I promise you that.
May I live a thousand years...
Interrogations can wait. Let us be off!
What a relief to have finally found her! Though our greatest challenge yet lies ahead of us, on the eve of this final battle, I find myself overcome with joy...
We could not have saved her without everyone's help. Thancred, Lyse, Urianger─and of course, you.
But yes, there is still much and more to be done. I should be very interested to learn the meaning of Fordola's ominous words, for one...
Lyse has gone to deliver Fordola into the custody of the Alliance, leaving M'naago and her men to hold the residential district and stand ready.
Once the Alliance has breached the main gates and commenced their assault, the Resistance forces will push through the entrance here and join the fray.
In that case, I will remain here. My search for Krile took me into the city proper, and my familiarity with their defenses may prove useful to the Resistance.
Understood. I shall instruct Arenvald and his unit to render support as well.
They were tasked with securing the aetheryte, as I recall. With me, Forename.
Gods, Krile... It's so good to see you. I feared the worst...
It wasn't your fault. You saved me─all of you. Thank you.
We will be departing shortly for Porta Praetoria to rejoin the main host.
Arenvald, I would have your unit remain here with Thancred, that you might support the Resistance troops in the coming battle.
Understood! We won't let you down.
...I trust you will refrain from doing anything I would not. We are both far too young to die.
Right, right─no noble sacrifices! Got it!
Forename, Krile─let us be off, then.
Ah, the heroes of the hour! Not content with securing the residential district, you gifted me an imperial commander. What are you after, a medal?
The work is its own reward, General. I must say, however, that Fordola's claims were not a little disturbing. What manner of power could Zenos have acquired that might equal an eikon?
Might she speak of our missing Omega?
Very possibly. The Empire's fondness for comparable Allagan technologies is exceedingly well documented. Have we made any progress with our own investigation?
None. The search goes on in earnest, but Cid has thus far found nothing of note. Mayhap the Garleans beat us to it. If they were working desperatelyto repair the machine, that might explain their decision to remain withintheir walls...
Ah, Lyse. I trust you surrendered Fordola into custody without incident.We were just discussing the pilus's claims.
About Zenos and his newfound powers? She hasn't said a word on the subject since we rescued Krile─even when the interrogator asked nicely.
Mayhap I can offer some insight into her claims─or at least into the facility and the experiments they conducted during my time there. Though my memories of the period are somewhat muddled, there are a few things I remember with painful clarity.
Thancred told us only that Fordola had undergone some...manner of treatment...
Yes... It is a place wholly dedicated to the creation of enhanced beings whom they refer to as “the Resonant.” As I understand it, the process aims toimbue a test subject with the qualities of an individual with demonstratedmagical aptitude.This entails... This entails the m-mechanical extraction and transfusion of some manner of...primordial essence.
So that's how Fordola improved so fast. I knew there had to be something.She wasn't half as strong or quick to predict my attacks when we first met.
If it weren't for Urianger's siphon thingy, I really don't think we'd havebeaten her...
My humble scheme asked far more in the execution than it required in the conception, I do assure thee.
Oh, you have got to stop doing that.
In calling upon Lady Alisaie after her defeat, I was most intrigued to learn of the apparent effortlessness with which Fordola countered her attacks. 'Twas as if she knew the blade's destination ere its journey began.
A most impressive feat under any circumstances, but an almost miraculousone when considered in the context of Fordola's unfamiliarity with mylady's arts. How then could she so perfectly predict an unknown opponent'severy move?
After much deliberation, I surmised that Fordola may be possessed of a preternatural ability to divine meaning from the fluctuations of an individual's aether, and to instinctively react. To employ a metaphor, one might say that she was attuned to the whispers of my lady Alisaie's soul.
Wait! Have you not just described a manifestation of the Echo?
I had no conclusive proof. The available anecdotal evidence suggested only that Fordola was uncommonly sensitive to aetheric fluctuations, and 'twas this which led me to develop my stratagem.
I would fashion a device with the capacity to generate a massive disruptionin the surrounding aether. If, as I suspected, Fordola's senses wereindeed questing for the most minor of oscillations, the shock of exposureto a more amplitudinous aetheric waveform would be akin to a debilitatingbout of aether sickness.
How...ingenious. I note that the success of your plan hinged on your device's wielder remaining ignorant of its purpose, lest Fordola divine your intent.
Indeed so, Master Alphinaud.All things considered, 'twas a most fortuitous outcome.
That's putting it mildly. In any event, if Urianger is correct, that would mean these Resonant have been granted the power of the Echo via artificial means. A sobering thought to say the least─and one which makes me wonder what else Zenos has in store.
Whatever the viceroy's newfound powers, I know of none better equipped to face him. And face him you must. For there is now but one path forward, and it leads straight to Ala Mhigo.
And it's not as if we came unprepared. We've got all our friends and allies fighting for the same thing. Honestly, right now, I feel like we could take on anyone and win. And I mean anyone!
Exactly! Ohhh, I wouldn't want to be in Zenos's boots!Not with the likes of us coming to get him!
Well, no one's saying we shouldn't be cautious!...Though maybe I was getting a bit carried away.
Enough talking! All right, all right! I get the message!Action is what's needed now!
Right─I'd best get back to the residential district. Thancred and the Resistance forces are waiting.
It is time we joined the main host.
Krile, in light of your recent ordeal...might I suggest that you remain with the rear guard for now?
Oh, if you insist...just this once.
If I may, General─is there aught Forename and I can do to assist with final preparations?
I'm glad you asked. Pipin informed me moments ago that all forces are in position and that we are ready to commence the assault.
Naught remains but to notify the Alliance commanders. If you've no objections, I should be glad to have you do the honors, Forename.
You were instrumental to the success of Operation Archon. You helped bring an end to the Dragonsong War. You are a hero to the people and a symbol of hope.
Some might judge it an empty gesture, or worse a waste of your talents, but I know it would mean much to everyone here.
All is ready? Very well. Though many will fall in the coming battle, how many more shall know liberty for their sacrifice.
There is a time for peace, and a time for war. Even the Matron understands this. We who have received of Hers and the elementals' blessings go now to stand for Eorzea and her children.
It's time, then. Though this is not my theater of choice, we will play our part. Our cannons care not either way.
That battery has sunk enough ships to fill a fleet. 'Tis not like to be bested by a gate.
Hah! That you should be the one to bring me word. By the Fury, it is good to see you, my friend.
You, who stood with us in our direst hour, will ever be an inspiration to my countrymen─and to me. Though Ishgard's debt can never be repaid, it is my hope that our deeds this day shall go some small way to redressing the balance.
It is done, then? Thank you, Forename...for humoring an old bull.
Maelstrom, Adder, and Ishgardian forces are in position, General!
Resistance forces in the Ala Mhigan Quarter are ready and await our signal.
Naught left to do but the deed itself.
Right, then. I must go to my men. I shall be leading the first charge through the breach.
Then we shall head to the front.
Pipin has command of our artillery outside the gate. He'll not be hard to find.
Ah, but before you go, I have a final favor to ask.
Give this to my son. He will understand.
Forename, Alphinaud. Hm? What is that you've got there?
By the Twelve, this is...this is Tizona!
The Bull of Ala Mhigo's legendary sword, forged from two cursed blades...
This sword is a symbol of everything my father fought to achieve. A weapon claimed on the bloodsands, and with it fortune and glory. Its flames consume the unworthy, but by fire was he reborn.
That he should bequeath it to me now...to carry on his legacy...Well, I shall endeavor to deserve it. But I'll be damned if this is his final battle!
Once we begin, there will be no respite until it's over. Are you ready, my friends?
Very well. Brace yourselves. This should be quite a specta─
Vice Marshal! Vice Marshal! Imperial unit approaching from the north!
Aiming to destroy our artillery, are they? How many?
Total numbers unconfirmed. At least one squadron. But sir─they're wolfmen!
Ferae Domitae. Bloody hells, that's all we need. Call up the Bloodsworn. Tell them to make ready─
Marshal Tarupin, wait!
These “wolfmen” of whom you speak hail from Doma. They were coerced into fighting for the Empire─spirited away to a foreign land and told that if they disobeyed, the lives of their kin would be forfeit.
But their homeland has been liberated. They have no reason to continue serving their imperial masters!
Ere you engage them in battle, I beseech you: grant us a moment to go and attempt to convince them to lay down their arms!
I am loath to gift our enemy more time to prepare...but if there is a chance that this conflict might be avoided, I suppose we must take it. Go then─but be quick.
We will, Vice Marshal.
With me, Forename!
We will wait here for the Lupin to arrive. Steel yourself, my friend. Though I hope to resolve this without resorting to violence, it would seem wise to prepare for the worst...
They come, Forename!
