Fire at will! Kill every last one of the savages!
Cannons! They could use those to fire on Naago!
Think you're clever with all your little tricks? Think again!None of you are leaving here alive!
You may have survived the Reach, hero, but this time you won't be so lucky.
This bridge belongs to the Empire! I am not about to give it up!
Hero or not, you'll die just like all the rest!
This is MY BRIDGE! You are NOT taking this from me!
Naago made it! We've only got to hold on a little longer...
Gods damn you!
No more running. No more hiding. Let's finish this!
Look! The flag!
The bridge is ours! Ala Mhigo, Ala Mhigo, Ala Mhigo!
Stand your ground! It's not over yet!
Damn it!
Let them go, Lyse! We've done what we came here to do.That's enough for now.
Velodyna is fallen!? Impossible!
We have them on the run! Forward! No mercy!
Regroup, regroup... We have to regroup! All units─ Fall back!
Commander! The 4th Cohort has been routed! We'll be at the mercy of the enemy's reinforcements if we don't fall back now!
Idiot! We have the stronger force by far! Don't be taken in by their tricks!Or would you rather tell Zenos you lost to this rabble!?
No, but if the snakes betray us in the confusion, we'll have no way out!I'm begging you, Commander─give the order, or we'll all die here!
...As common traitors who drank of muddied waters. For all the good it did us.
Skulls, with me! The day is theirs, and so is this bastard bridge.Someone bring the snake!
...I suppose. It's our first victory, isn't it? And that has to be worth something.
It's a shame Fordola got away, but we did what we came here to do.
I have to remind myself it's just the first step...but it's a big one. We're going to take it back...all of it─one ilm at a time if we have to!
There's still a chance that some imperials are holed up inside the castellum. We'll need to search it top to bottom to be sure it's safe.
In the meantime, I want you to rendezvous with the main host. Keep your weapons at the ready─there's a chance you might come face-to-face with soldiers on the run en route.
On second thought, it might be prudent for you to do a preemptive sweep of the region for soldiers that have gone to ground. We shouldn't afford them any time to regroup and launch a counterattack.
When you've judged your work to be done, report to General Aldynn in Bittermill.
Well met. All's well at the bridge?
Good, good. The fighting has died down here too, as you can see.
Pipin left but a moment ago with a contingent of troops to occupy Velodyna. If and when the imperials return, they'll find us dug in behind their own walls.
I could not have hoped for a better outcome, General. Splendidly done.
Let's not get ahead of ourselves. It'll take more than one castellum to turn the tide.
My men and I will deal with the remaining enemy forces. Scions, I bid you return to Commander Kemp and his men.
Delight not overmuch in victory─not when there are battles left to fight...
Our work here is finished. Our Resistance allies are waiting.
Back so soon? I suppose the General and his men had matters well in hand.
The vice marshal and his men showed up not long after you left. If the gods are good, there'll be no one left to fight...
I know you're not one for waiting, but if you'll bear with us─
