Let us aid you, Lord van Hydrus!
Hmph, naught but toy soldiers to knock down.
Leave the rank and file to us! Focus on the legatus!
Obsidian Carbuncle! Come!
I need air support! Now!
I had heard the tales of your strength, Warrior of Light. And now that I have experienced it firsthand, van Baelsar's defeat seems less inexplicable.
You are a formidable foe, and I have thoroughly enjoyed our time together. Alas, all good things must come to an end. Allagan secrets await, and there is no profit to be had in remaining here.
Keep them occupied!
Coward...
It would seem we have no choice.
You must continue on. We will hold them here.
Take the Eye. It should still hold enough energy to be of use to you.
I shall join you as soon as I am able.
Enough talk! Make haste and stop the archbishop!
<blip> Welcome to the Delta Quadrant, where methods are developed for mastering dragons.
To this day, the sector is home to live specimens brought over from the southern continent of Meracydia. Truly a testament to the greatness of the Allagan Empire.
<blip> I regret to inform you that the matter conduit leading to the Flagship is no longer functioning.
According to my records, it was destroyed by a dragon, which broke free of its restraints when they failed approximately two thousand three hundred and sixty-nine years, one month, twenty-four days, seven hours and four minutes ago.
Please find an alternate route to the Aetherochemical Research Facility. The Allagan Research Council apologizes for any inconvenience caused.
So, thy journey hath led thee to this accursed place. Canst thou hear it, mortal? The ceaseless keening of my kindred, steeped in five thousand years of suffering...
Long before the Ishgardians and their base betrayal, there lived still more wicked men whose ambitions knew no bounds.
Fearful of our might and covetous of our power, they devised a means to enslave dragonkind... Their vile misdeeds did set in motion a train of events whose repercussions are felt to this day.
Beyond, thou wilt find one of my first brood. Hark thou unto her words. Partake thou of her pain. Think thou upon the suffering that the conflict betwixt our kinds hath begot.
Beyond, thou wilt find one of my first brood. Hark thou unto her words. Partake thou of her pain. Think thou upon the suffering that the conflict betwixt our kinds hath begot.
