Ah, there you are. Heard you'd gone hunting for ceruleum above ground.
Brought back a king's ransom?
Hardly. But thanks to these three, we have enough to last a little while longer.
Well, well. It's not at all what I was expecting, these ones. For savages, they seem positively docile.
Ah, it's a poor attempt at humor. In all honesty, I'm grateful for your efforts. But even with another night of warmth, there are those among us who may not live to see the morrow...
I trust your expedition was fruitful.
Lord Quintus!
Use what you procured to refuel the armor.
But sir, what about the heaters for the camp?
The time for action is upon us.
My men and I have matters to discuss. In the meantime, you are to wait here. Do not forget─you are being watched.
“The time for action”... What did he mean by that?
I can only speculate. Clearly something requiring their magitek, given what we just heard. Whether they plan to utilize it now or after they join with the Xth is another question...
Will they ever escape this cold? Return to and reclaim the idyllic spaces of which Jullus spoke...?
Finished your war council?
Alphinaud and Alisaie are to stay here...as our prisoners. They will be released once your comrades have relinquished their supplies and withdrawn from Garlean soil.
Until our terms are met, they will be detained at a separate location.
After everything we've said and done, this is how you treat us!?
Our allies have but limited supplies. They may stave off cold and starvation for a short while, but what then!?
For now, keeping yourselves out of harm's way comes before all else. Whatever demands the Garleans make, indulge them.
Get them out of here.
Alphinaud and Alisaie will be fine...providing they do not resist.
You will accompany me back to your camp, where I will meet with your leader and present Lord Quintus's demands.
Before we depart, however, there is something I would ask of you.
Assuming your contingent complies, the supplies they surrender will need to be transported here.
That task falls to Legionaries Marcellinus and Octavia, who will pilot magitek armor to your headquarters. You are to inform them that we are leaving shortly.
Tell them to ask the iyl for further details. In those words.
Once you've seen to that, meet me by the exit.
You again...
“Ask the iyl,” he said? Heh...heh heh... <sigh>
So. That's to be the way of it. After all this...
How ironic that you should be the one to deliver the news.
If those are my orders, then so be it. For the glory...of Garlemald...
What do you want with me!?
“Ask the iyl”... So Lord Quintus has reached a decision.
I knew he would understand. That he would recognize the savage is a ruthless, merciless creature, and to defeat him, we too must be...uncompromising...
I...am ready. In the name of Emperor Varis, for the glory of Garlemald, I will fulfill...my duty!
Have you done as instructed?
Duty is rarely a simple thing. We have been given additional orders, though whether we will be required to follow them depends entirely on your contingent.
I am not at liberty to divulge that. What I can say is this: you have no cause for concern if our demands are met.
You and I are in this together now. Like it or not, we have to cooperate.
There is one other matter... A place I'd like to visit on the way to your camp.
It's a short walk from here. Follow me.
Give me a moment. Please.
Give me a moment. Please.
This is my home. Our home.
Least it was until that night. I was with Lord Quintus when the capital fell, and thus spared. My family, who did not own a radio, were less fortunate.
When dawn came, I made my way here. My parents...my little brother and sister...they were still inside...
But they weren't themselves, and they...they tried to... And I had to...
I'd promised to take them away from the capital that very morning. To somewhere safe, to hide until the fighting stopped.
I promised...
The Garlean flag bears a chain. The bonds between our countrymen.
A red link at its center─the blood of the fallen. Our loved ones who lived and died for Garlemald.
But if she, too, fell, who would be left to remember them and their sacrifice? What enduring proof would there be that they were ever here?
If we had turned to your gods, would they have saved us?
I'm sorry. Forget I spoke.
We should go.
It's no use.
Believe me, I do not enjoy being here any more than you. But she wanted us to play along, so that is what we will do.
...It's so cold.
Painfully so... Unbearably.
I've been thinking about what Quintus said. About why no one would accept Garlean rule.
Irreconcilable differences. When coexistence isn't an option, only conquest remains.
Varis at Ghimlyt said much the same. Only by uniting the world beneath a single standard would we rid ourselves of the Ascians.
United...as one people. One race, cleansed of “imperfections.”
A cold and unforgiving vision. And when we fail to live up to their standards...what place is there for us in their world?
But the truly sad, truly frustrating thing is how damnably similar it all is to the lofty ideals of Father and the Forum.
Nonintervention─always nonintervention. Protect our knowledge and our people and to hells with the rest of you.
And yet...I can see how it happened. Varis and Father looked to their elders for guidance and took their virtues as their own. For this world was of their making─in who else could they place their trust?
All of us lost in a sea of chaos, searching desperately for purpose and meaning...but it shouldn't just be an extension of another's. It has to be ours. It has to be.
We all have a stake in this world. No one should be silenced...
I won't deny that we lack the experience of people such as Father or Quintus.
Perhaps they've come to see the world as a series of problems, and the most efficient way of solving them to reduce everything to fundamental forms.
A stone is a stone, a cloud a cloud, a flower no more than that. Simple descriptions that strip the subject of distinguishing characteristics.
A man is a man. Divided according to race, creed, or allegiance─and to some, defined by such associations.
Is that what you think?
In my misbegotten youth. But what I believed wisdom was no more than aggressive ignorance.
I've since learned to look beyond the banners and the politics. To see people as individuals with their own hopes and dreams.
As for my dream of building a better world... Well, every day I am reminded that it is far more complex than I had ever imagined.
But it only spurs me onward. To find the wisdom and the strength to see it through to the very end.
All of our supplies and an immediate withdrawal? These are your conditions?
Demands. And you forgot about the airship.
Once again, you will leave one behind. It will be used to return the prisoners. Their collars will be removed prior to the exchange.
So in the end, not even Father's expertly worded rhetoric could deter you from your chosen course.
Huh?
Not that I thought for a moment that it would. I've no love for violence, of course, but ours is a cause worth fighting for. I just wish he'd realize it too.
Sometimes the only way to protect the ones you love is to take a stand. To refuse to suffer in silence.
I want you to know I share your conviction. Whether it be on the battlefield or in the debating chamber, I won't back down. I guess what I'm saying is...
You've found your own reason to fight.
Yes. Yes, I have.
Gods willing, there will come a day when we can finally lay down our arms, and there will be peace.
But not until the Telophoroi have been defeated once and for all.
And you, Brother, will have a vital part to play. By your words and deeds, you'll lead the way.
...I pray I am up to the task.
There'll always be naysayers. Those who think us fools for even trying.
It's easy for learned elites to criticize earnest efforts and assert their moral superiority. All without offering alternatives.
Not that their sophistry has ever wounded you. So stubborn and strong─stronger than you even know.
Don't ever change, you hear me? If you stumble, I'll be there to catch you. Or give you a thick ear. Maybe both for good measure.
Thank you, Alisaie...
The scouts have secured Alisaie and Alphinaud. Their collars were removed without complication as well.
They report no casualties─not for their party nor the guards, who will wake from their premature slumber in due course.
It would appear the situation has changed.
I propose new terms. We have information that will be of great interest to Lord Quintus, and I wish to speak with him in person.
No. In the event you rejected our first proposal, we came prepared with a second.
Ambush!
More are coming! Make ready!
We, the loyal soldiers of the Ist Legion, proud servants of Garlemald...
Of the fallen Emperor Varis, shall safeguard these lands...
...from the barbarian hordes until our countrymen return!
Stop, both of you!
This child may be the worst emissary I have ever seen...
We received an urgent communication from the Grand Company of Eorzea.
Envoys from the imperial army, led by members of the Xth Legion, came to Ala Mhigo and requested an audience.
They explained that their efforts to coordinate the reclamation of the capital with the aid of the IVth, Vth, VIIIth, and XIIth had ended in failure.
Communication between most legions has broken down entirely. Most of the Xth's conscripts have deserted, leaving their forces severely depleted.
That is why, unable to continue the fight on their own, they and their allies turned to the Grand Company of Eorzea for aid.
Lies! Every word!
It is the truth, and I have not finished. The Xth has requested that we deliver a message to Lord Quintus.
“Have the iyl stand down.”
You have been listening, my lord?
Wh-What are your orders?
Inform her...that we will honor the Xth's decision.
Bereft of hope...and now dignity.
I release you from your duty. All of you.
I take solace, Your Radiance, in the knowledge you are not here to witness our debasement.
'Twas a grand, glorious dream we shared.
Of a world united. Of peace and prosperity.
We are ghosts, you and I. Memories of days gone by.
Bonds forged in blood...that I will not see tarnished.
Quickly! We have to reach the station before it's too late!
If there is still a chance that Quintus will agree to a truce, we must take it.
I just hope we get there before he and his men do something rash...
We will make no attempt to resist.
Thank goodness the Xth Legion decided to sue for peace when they did. We have been spared more senseless bloodshed, which is the last thing anyone─including the Ist─needs.
From their perspective, though, the promise of reinforcements was their last hope, and now they have no choice but to capitulate to the invaders. But we will prove to them that all is not lost, and we yet stand a chance of casting out the Telophoroi.
Even with their empire in ruins, the Garleans have not lost the will to fight.
That strength shall serve them in days to come. There is yet life in this cold soil.
It was a grave error not to post sentries farther from the camp. Had we seen the Garleans sooner, we could have slain them long before the truce was called.
They engaged us of their own free will, and deserved to die warrior's deaths. Even so, I have not forgotten why we are here, and I will stay my hand...for now.
When the imperials charged upon us, we were able to avoid any serious injuries on either side. In truth, most of the Garleans were in no condition to fight. Sunken eyes, hollow cheeks... It must have been a long time since they had a decent meal.
I am sure they will be much more amenable to conversation with food in their bellies.
I've just returned from guarding the airships, and now I've got to keep an eye on the captured imperials. Maybe a bit of chitchat will help lighten the mood.
News regarding the Xth came shortly after you first left with Jullus.
From that, we were able to deduce that the Ist were somewhere within the capital. We were, however, only able to verify this once you had made contact with Thancred.
Much and more has occurred since last we met.
As for determining what comes next, we must speak with Lord Quintus.
Before we proceed, tell me what you know of the Ist Legion and the disposition of their forces.
They were preparing for war while the refugees in their care were left to go hungry? A reckless, shortsighted plan that risks the welfare of the people they are sworn to protect.
Nevertheless, we cannot compel them to accept our aid. If we were to arrive in force with the intent to do so, we would only incite panic...but perhaps they can be persuaded to follow one of their own.
Go with Jullus back to the station and have him lead the refugees here. Some may be unwilling or unable to leave, but for the time being, I'll take what I can get.
Alphinaud, Alisaie, and the scouts sent to extricate them should already be at the station. I will also have our other comrades in the area lend their support should it be needed.
...Understood.
I will have food and bedding prepared for the refugees. Getting them here safely, however, is my immediate concern...
'Tis a comfort to see thee none the worse for thy recent ordeals.
Oh, I did not expect you to arrive so soon. There's been a...development. Perhaps you had best see for yourself.
What are you doing back here? Where are Jullus and the others!?
Forename...and Jullus.
We arrived just before you did...and too late.
Too late for what? What's happened?
It's Lord Quintus... He took his own life.
After the news about the Xth, he relieved us of our duties. Then, when he was alone, he...
No... No, he wouldn't...
Thancred and the others─assisted by the soldiers─have seen to the remains.
In due course shall the legatus be afforded a proper burial.
He released us from our duty...
He wanted us to be free. Free to choose our own fate.
Without him to guide us, we're... I...
I have just this moment spoken with Lucia.
We are ready to commence the transfer of the refugees here to Camp Broken Glass, should they be willing to accept our aid.
Some...would rather die...
...But most of us just want to live. Songs and standards be damned─we just want to live.
We'll need to speak with the refugees. They'll have to decide for themselves if they wish to come with us.
If any would prefer to stay, we can have supplies brought over for them. It'll be a hard journey for the others, but we'll see they reach our camp safely.
I...I...
After what happened to his family, the Ist was all Jullus had left. Now even that's been taken away from him...
He's not alone in that, either. There's a comfort in having someone to follow. Someone to lead...
I know not how to offer encouragement or solace to these poor souls. But if it's safe passage to our camp they need, I'd gladly oblige.
