Hehehe, you're dead now, girl! Finished, done for, dead!
No you don't!
No, Admiral! It's too dangerous!
I made my decision before I came here. No matter what it costs me, Limsa will have peace.
Ungh...
Admiral!
Slay the last one! Exterminate, destroy, slay!
Forename, a little more aether! Just a little more, and I can finish this!
Thank you! It will work this time, I promise!
Yes, this will do! Here I go!
Go, Angelo!
Did it work?
What...?
What is the meaning of this!?
I'm sorry...but they died by your hand. You sacrificed them to summon Titan.
No... No, no, no... Noooooo!
Why? Why would I do such a thing?
Would that there were a cure for the victims of the tempered...
Ga Bu! What are you doing here?
Patriarch. Please listen to me. Hear, heed, listen.
The Great Father we have been summoning is false. He only hurts us and those we love.
For a long time, His voice filled my mind. It told me to do terrible things. Awful, unspeakable, terrible things.
But I didn't give in to it. And you mustn't either.
There's been too much pain already. So please, end the suffering.
What...what have I done?
We share this child's desire, Patriarch. An end to summoning. For it spells naught but misery for both our peoples.
For many long years, man and kobold have feuded over territory, pillaging and perishing for the earth beneath our feet.
It may be said that we fought to survive, but what we have sown in blood, we have reaped in suffering, and it cannot go on. I would see us set aside the past and work together for peace.
It was wrong of me to hurt my own in the name of the Great Father. Sinful, evil, wrong. But that doesn't mean there can be peace between us.
Men cannot be trusted! The bounty of the land was to be ours, and yours the bounty of the sea! But you broke the pact! Violated, breached, broke!
Unready as we were, what choice had we but to call upon the divine to rid ourselves of your tyranny?
None. And I do not blame you for it.
In violation of the spirit─if not the letter─of the pact, we took your lands for our own. The fault lies wholly with us.
On behalf of all Lominsans, I offer you my humblest apology. I pray you will find it in your heart to accept it.
Yet I know an apology alone will not serve to make things right. So we will revise the pact to leave no room for doubt, and any who violate it shall face justice swift and certain.
No! We won't be fooled! Not again!
Please, hear me to the end. Fleeting though it was, there was a time when man and kobold abided together in harmony. In cooperation.
In those days, your people shared the secrets of smelting─knowledge which allowed Limsa Lominsa to thrive. Much of what we have, we owe to the kobolds.
And so, for the good of all who dwell on this isle, I wish to make you an offer. We will bear your people's wares to every corner of the world, and trade them in your stead.
In return, we will bring you the bounty not only of the sea, but lands both near and far. Whatever you desire, the Navigator as my witness, you shall have it.
There will be no more man and beastman─just the crew of the great ship that is Vylbrand. And together, we will share in the wealth of the world─if you will only accept our hand in friendship.
We want to believe you! We truly do! But we believed you before, and you betrayed us! Fooled, deceived, betrayed us!
There are bad men, it's true, but there are also good ones. And the ones before you are the best of them. They were always kind to me─caring, nice, kind─and I trust them with my life.
Before I became Admiral, I was a pirate. I stole. I fought. I stained the sea red with blood. Such is my past, and I dare not forget it, however much I might want to.
That is Death Penalty. The pistol I used to pass judgment on my own sire when he fell thrall to Leviathan and betrayed his comrades.
It is loaded. If you were to point it at my head and pull the trigger, I would most assuredly die.
Though it isn't much, my life is the single most valuable thing I possess. If it will suffice to atone for past wrongs─take it.
A single bullet to annul the old pact, and my blood to write it anew.
What comes after, I entrust to this man, my second-in-command. I know that he will do his utmost for the happiness of all who call Vylbrand home.
I do not trust you. Not yet. But Ga Bu does. And I will trust him.
We want you to know that we respect your faith. There's nothing wrong with giving thanks to the land which sustains you.
But summoning is different. Should you hear of anyone who would attempt it, we ask that you appeal to their better judgment, or failing that, seek our aid. We're always ready to help.
Many and more of my brethren are yet in thrall to the Great Father, just as I was. If you could free them too, I would be grateful. Appreciative, thankful, grateful.
'Tis we who should be grateful, Patriarch. I thank you for affording us this chance.
'Twould seem we have found a way forward with the kobolds. Next, we will help the Second Order to free their tempered brethren from thralldom.
Theirs is far from the only order, of course, and it will take no small amount of time and effort to reach the rest. But reach them we will, however long it takes.
I would say that I was in your debt, but that has long been true. So instead, I will say thank you─for helping us to plot a new course not only for Limsa Lominsa, but all Eorzea.
Right, let's return to the Rising Stones.
Admiral! Something strange is afoot at the Floating City!
Breathe, man. What is it?
I think it's best you see for yourself. Please come with me.
What in the world is that?
A tower.
You can see it too, then? I feared I was losing my wits. One moment I was patrolling as usual, and the next, it was just...there.
Yes? This is she... I am... Aye. I'm looking at it.
What!? Understood... Send the Elder Seedseer my regards.
The communications officer. It seems this isn't the only tower. They've sprung up all across Eorzea.
Nothing more is known─only that they appear to be of Garlean construction. Our allies on the Ala Mhigan front are on highest alert.
Forgive my directness─but would you join them? They may well need the help.
Of course, Admiral. We shall make all haste.
My thanks. I will return to Limsa to weigh our response.
Look for Commander Hext when you arrive in Ala Mhigo. And may the Navigator speed you on your way!
Thank you for coming so soon.
I'll send for Commander Aldynn at once, and we can decide what to do about these infernal towers.
