This is Antlion IV. Nothing to report as of─
Wait! Disregard previous message! Target sighted. I say again: target sighted.
Understood. Hold your position.
Attention, all units. This is Lieutenant Adalbert Cotter.
The first step of Operation Archon begins with us. Should we falter here, all hope of victory will be lost.
'Tis no small burden, but know that I believe in all of you. So believe in yourselves, and together we will blaze a path for our brothers and sisters of the Alliance to follow.
We will create multiple diversions and disperse the enemy garrison. That should give you a chance to breach their defenses.
Go now, Forename, and bring us Rhitahtyn's head! May Rhalgr grant you strength!
Commence diversionary maneuvers!
It would appear we have unexpected guests.
Now, where have I seen you before? Ah, but of course─the woman who felled the mighty Titan.
This is the eikon-slayer!?
I see. The commotion without is naught but a diversion.
Allow me to hazard a guess: by eliminating me, you hope to undermine the garrison at Occidens.
A bold strategy, to be sure, but have you the strength to see it to fruition?
Leave us. None of you are a match for her.
Send word to Castrum Occidens. Tell them the Lominsans are coming.
At once, my lord!
Fifteen years have come and gone since Lord van Baelsar first set foot in Eorzea, yet his ambition for the realm burns as strong as ever it did. Know you what fuels it, adventurer? The desire to deliver the people from their suffering.
The lands he has conquered were all beset with problems─poverty, starvation, lawlessness, and strife. My homeland was no exception. Had my lord not reached out and claimed it for the Empire, it would eventually have destroyed itself.
But under his sage leadership, my people enjoyed such peace and stability as we had never known. And he only desires the selfsame for the people of this realm. Under his rule, Eorzea would be free from the shackles which bind it─the shackles of false faith.
There would be no feeble leaders to misguide the masses, no eikons to bleed the realm dry. True peace would reign, and the people would be free to live their lives without fear of persecution or oppression.
Should you doubt the truth of my words, I bid you look upon me. I am no son of Garlemald, yet Lord van Baelsar saw fit to raise me to a station of great honor.
He measures a man not by his birth, but by his worth. Such is his sense of justice. By the grace of His Excellency, I am where I was born to be─upon the field of battle.
He has given me a noble cause to fight for, and worthy adversaries to smite.
I am not wont to bare my steel needlessly. But if you are deaf to reason...
In the name of Lord van Baelsar, I, Rhitahtyn sas Arvina, do swear to strike you down!
I will suffer none to oppose Lord van Baelsar!
Your defeat will bring Lord van Baelsar's noble conquest one step closer to fruition!
My shields are impregnable!
Let me show you a technique passed down in my homeland!
You do not hold back! Very well, neither shall I!
Ugh... So this is the strength of she who vanquished Titan...
