We cannot suffer the enemy to use our weapons against us!
You're not undoing our hard work!
They're on their own! We can take them!
Uwaaah! Keep them away from Maggie!
Chief, look! She moved!
Ah, now she deigns to grace us with her presence!
It took us a good while, but we're finally ready.
It's time to infiltrate Castrum Centri and rescue our comrades!
There, the finishing touch!
The servomechanism is now fully functional─and all it took was a simple fight to the death. Remind me not to install a mammet heart aboard the Enterprise, would you? Much as I love her, I would rather not be required to profess it before boarding. But enough of that. Let us see to our final preparations.
Thanks to Biggs and Wedge, the reaper is as good as new. We're as prepared as we're like to get!
How go your preparations, Forename? We leave as soon as you're ready.
Glaumunt! You came!
Aye─thought I'd give you all a roarin' send-off. 'Tis the least I can do for the fine men an' women what're about to make my lifelong wish come true.
Well, we'll do our best! Hmmm... It occurs to me, for all the help you've afforded us, we know little and less about you. What did the Empire do to earn your ire? ...Ah, but I fear I've put curiosity before consideration. I quite understand if you'd rather not relive those memories.
No, no, I don't mind, really. Truth be told, a part o' me was itchin' to tell you my tale. Mind you, 'tis hardly novel─I ain't the first to suffer at imperial hands.
Like most folk, I used to have a mother. She was a sweet, carin' woman with a smile never far from her face. There was a sister too. Pretty little thing, she was─gentle as a lamb, but tough as nails. We were poor folk livin' simple lives, but we knew happiness just the same.
An' then the imperials came an' took it all away. When Ala Mhigo fell, they put my family in a camp. Bein' a lad, I was made to do hard labor, while my mother an' sister were forced to do far worse... They hid their sufferin' from me as best they could, but I knew, an' the thought of it drove me mad. We had to escape. An' so I hatched a plan to get us out o' the city.
We were pickin' our way around a gorge not far outside the walls when they caught up with us... An' rather than allow 'emselves to be taken again, my mother an' sister leaped over the edge before my very eyes. Heartbroken as I was, I didn't put up a fight when the imperials clapped me in chains an' dragged me back.
'Twas some years after that I escaped again, an' that time, I got away. I swore then that I'd get revenge on the Empire, an' became an adventurer so as to hone my skills an' earn the coin I needed. But nigh on two decades've since gone by, an' what've I achieved? Bugger all, that's what.
Not like you lot. You ain't been here ten minutes, an' you've already done more'n I managed in ten bloody years.
You give us too much credit, Glaumunt. We seek only to rescue our friends.
Well, what's more important than that? An' anyroad, after you've got your friends back, you're plannin' on goin' after the Empire, an' don't pretend you ain't.
I've helped a few folk take on the imperials over the years, an' every time I have, it's helped stave off my appetite for revenge. But summat tells me I won't be goin' hungry for a while what with everythin' you've got planned.
And you are sure that will satisfy you? If you wish to strike back at the Empire with your own hand, you need only say the word. We would be glad to have you with us.
Temptin' though your offer is, I'm afeared I must decline.
I swore I'd get revenge on the Empire, 'tis true, but I've long since realized that the front lines are no place for a man like me.
Aye, there's some as would call me craven, but I prefer to think o' myself as a realist. My talents lie in schemin', ye see, not swordplay. Helpin' folk like you is how I can make the most difference.
...But that's quite enough storytellin' for one day. Best not keep your friends waitin' any longer. I'll be prayin' for your safety an' success. May Rhalgr give you strength!
Wherever the Empire goes, misery invariably follows in its wake.
For the sake of all who call Eorzea home, we must put an end to Gaius's ambitions.
But first, we have friends to rescue.
Biggs, Wedge, and I will lie in wait east of Castrum Centri, just outside the stronghold's patrol perimeter.
Join us when you're ready.Oh, and don't forget to wear your disguise, or this will be the shortest rescue mission in history.
Forgive me for saying so, but you look rather fine in imperial black and crimson! Definitely your colors! Ahhh, but now is not the time for jests.
Let's review the infiltration plan. Castrum Centri lies just beyond.
A short while ago, an imperial patrol left to do its rounds.
Alphinaud and I will create a diversion out here and keep them occupied for as long as we are able. Meanwhile, the three of you will enter the stronghold, posing as the patrol returning from duty.
Should Alphinaud and I prove less distracting than hoped, I will contact you via linkpearl. Be ready to beat a hasty retreat.
Wedge will lead the way in the reaper. Stay close to him.
And I hardly need tell you this, but don't do anything suspicious!
Oh, and lest you wonder, Yda and Y'shtola left shortly before you arrived. We had planned that they should linger in the vicinity, to cover our retreat in the event that Alphinaud and I attracted too much attention─but the approach of an imperial vehicle forced us to improvise.
Don't be too disappointed─they did at least leave a message for you. Something along the lines of “don't do anything reckless,” if memory serves. Wise words.
All right, the imperial patrol should be returning any moment now. You'd best be off.
Good luck, Forename! May the Twelve keep you!
You have spirit, that I will allow. Yet you struggle to the benefit of none, least of all yourself.
This “Echo” of yours intrigues us. We desire only to understand it. And for that, we need your help.
You wish to be rid of the eikons, do you not?
You would have saved yourself a great deal of torment had you accepted our aid from the beginning.
Tell me everything, and I shall end it quickly. Refuse, and though you beg for death, you shall not have it.
Which will it be?
As you wish, my dear Minfilia.
Unpleasant though it will be for all concerned, you leave us no choice but to employ more rigorous methods of study.
Be so kind as to deliver the prisoners to Castrum Meridianum.
Yes, milady!
<whimper> <moan>
