You're not getting away! Bring forth the colossus!
What in the hells...? A new design!
Have care!
Ware the unknown foe.
So that's a colossus, is it!? More like a colossal waste of iron!
Take the leader! Kill the rest!
Y'shtola!
Pray forgive us our delay!
Papalymo! Minfilia!
Yda!
What took you so long!?
Well, it's nice to see you too!
The reunion must wait!
Right! First things first!
Yes, let's get back to being heavily outnumbered...
Uwaaaaaah!
You ditched your magitek armor!? Fool of a Lalafell!
Well, excuse me! She's all yours if you think you can do any better!
But there's no one in there.
This is Cid! Can you hear me!?
I need you to count to five, then jump! Understood!?
One...
Two!
Three!
Four!
I know not which is more pitiful: the charlatans who rule Eorzea...
...or the masses that clamor for their implausible panaceas.
I see that which they cannot. This realm founders for want of a ruler with true power─the power to cast down eikons.
If you continue to deny this truth, it is the people who will suffer. Embrace reason.
<gasp>
What in the seven hells─!?
Oh no... It's here!
Twelve preserve us... They finished it. Ultima Weapon...
So it has a name...
It is a relic of ancient Allag, excavated from its resting place deep beneath Ala Mhigo.
The Allagans used it to crush primal and foe alike...and now the Garleans mean to do the same!
Damn you, Gaius!
Look! There, beside the Black Wolf!
An Ascian!
An overlord, no less. His garb attests to that.
Lahabrea! It could only be him!
Thancred!
He was Lahabrea...? No... No, this cannot be!
We have to go now! Hang on!
Thancred! NOOOOOO!
Ahahaha... Muahahahahaha!
All that time, the enemy was beside me, and I never even suspected.
And to think that it was I who suggested that Thancred investigate the Ascians! How could I have been so blind!?
Small wonder the enemy knew our every move─and where to find us! Confound it all!
No... No, this is not the time for self-doubt. The Alliance leaders staked their hopes on the Scions, but now they believe us all dead or missing.
When they learn of the Empire's new weapon, we cannot be certain what they will do.
We must go and offer them what assurances we can that defeat is not inevitable!
Krile? This is Minfilia. I am in some haste, so forgive me if I seem brusque.
The situation may have taken an ill turn...
The item I requested—is it ready?
But the battle is far from over. And so long as we stand together, there shall ever be hope of victory.
Wonderful! I'm sorry to press, but we need it urgently. How soon can it be delivered?
The people of Eorzea falter for want of such hope. Let us provide it. Let us bear to them the tidings that the Scions of the Seventh Dawn are returned!
I am in your debt, my friend.
Matters are coming to a head. I hope we can count on you.
...My regards to Grandfather.
I am ready. Let us pay a visit to the council of the Alliance leadership.
Hells take the Black Wolf and his new toy...
Rally all available forces. I want them ready to move upon my word.
And relay to Slafyrsyn the order to sail. That is all.
The Maelstrom stands ready. What of the Flames?
Ready as we're like to be. I need only give the word to Roaille.
Has there been no word from Ishgard?
None. The dragons have got their tongues.
Silent to the last. I was unwise to hope for better.
What would stir the archbishop to open his holy mouth, if not this!? And he claims the Fury for his god... 'Tis bad comedy!
The Holy See has made its choice. We will proceed without its cooperation.
I believe we are all acquainted with the terms of the Black Wolf's ultimatum.
We must agree upon a course of action. Naught less than the fate of Eorzea hangs upon the decision of this council.
Van Baelsar claims to wield the power to smite primals.
Should we yield to him, he pledges to rid the realm of its false gods. Yet offer resistance, and he swears that we shall share the primals' fate.
Pardon me my bluntness, but I like not these choices.
This is too great a decision for any one of our nations to make alone.
Choose we surrender or resistance, we must answer as one, for if but one surrenders, the rest shall surely fall. Let us pray for the wisdom to do right by all our peoples.
Thancred's plight troubles us all, yet we cannot allow anything to come between us and our goal.
So long as the Ultima Weapon exists, Eorzea will never know peace.
Let us go to the Alliance leaders, Forename, and help them to make the right decision.
Grim tidings, Forename. It seems that word of the Ultima Weapon's existence has already reached the Alliance leaders...in the form of an ultimatum. They have gathered in the Fragrant Chamber, and are deliberating their answer even as we speak.
Beleaguered as they are, I fear they may well elect to lay down their arms in the belief that surrender will spare their people untold suffering. Yet nothing could be further from the truth.
That which the Black Wolf offers will doom Eorzea, not deliver it, and the leaders must be made aware of this. Let us hurry to them, Forename, and ensure that they do not act in ignorance of the consequences.
The council of the Alliance leaders is presently in progress in the Fragrant Chamber. I must ask that you step away from the doors, madam.
...I'm sorry? You're here on behalf of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn!? A thousand pardons, my lady! Of course you may enter!
Bah! We keep treading the same ground.
Van Baelsar's demands are clear...
Alas, our minds are not.
I've never been one to shy from a fight. But if this weapon of theirs can do all they claim...
It has been five years since the Calamity, and our people have scarce begun to rebuild their lives.
Can we now, in good conscience, call upon them to risk what little they have left? I would spare them the pain of further conflict.
Conflict, I say, though that would imply forces set in opposition. If the combined might of three primals could not stay Garlemald's new terror...
What meaningful resistance can we offer? We who struggle to quell the foes who rise up within our own borders...
Long have we fought the primals, but to what end? We strike them down at no small cost, only for them to rise again and again.
Are we to play this profitless game for the rest of days? I for one grow tired of it.
Mistake me not, I do not propose to trade one tyranny for another.
I love liberty. But conciliation need not mean oppression.
By the Twelve... Though neither of you cried “surrender,” your every word betokened it.
Not that I deny there is truth in what you say. Nor can I rightly claim that Ul'dah is ready to fight.
Refugees flood our gates, and beastmen swarm our land, while the great and the good do nothing. My Flames struggle to bear the burden.
I put on a grand show at the remembrance service, made all manner of lofty promises... I've made good on not a bloody one.
Do not blame yourself, Raubahn. You said only that which the people needed to hear. All present have done the same.
Our citizens had become lost to hope. If our words served to kindle it in them anew, better we speak than remain silent.
Our enemy condemns us for failing our people, yet what does he care for their well-being?
While we labored to rebuild their lives, the Black Wolf built instruments of murder with which to end them.
Her Majesty speaks true. For all our failings, the people's well-being has ever been our foremost priority.
While none among us ever doubted that the Empire would one day resume its war, we scarcely had means enough to solve the problems of the present.
Aye, which is why we looked to others to safeguard our future─
The Scions of the Seventh Dawn. Alas, they are gone, and the Black Wolf is at our door.
Admiral, I fear you are mistaken!
Alphinaud? Minfilia? And─seven hells─MASTER GARLOND!
And you, dear friend...
By Rhalgr... You're alive! All of you!
As we approached, I would swear I heard talk of surrender, but I know that cannot be! It is not the Eorzean way!
Hear me, my friends! Accepting the Garleans' offer to vanquish the primals would be folly.
Folly, I say, for might is not the answer to the primal threat. Indeed, the more the Empire exerts its strength, the worse matters will become.
Primals enter this world when mortals call upon them, and mortals are wont to appeal to a higher power when they are desperate.
Nothing is more certain to breed desperation in the beast tribes than the Garleans' proposed solution.
The true answer lies in a lasting peace, but the Garleans only know war and conquest. Should Eorzea fall into their hands, there will be such suffering as none can imagine.
We are not blind to the many challenges that each of your nations face. Yet you must not give in.
Aye! Remember five years ago, when you wagered all for the sake of the realm! Remember what you fought for, what you were willing to die for!
Let the memories rekindle the fire in your heart, for Eorzea has need of it again!
Come what may, we Scions will never give up the fight.
And so I bid you stand with us, and together we shall safeguard the future of the realm!
A great man once said that a shrewd merchant grasps not for the quick profit, but invests in the future. Wise words...eh, Raubahn?
Cid... I...
Your words stir...and shame me in equal measure. How could I contemplate surrender...?
I know full well that all we have, we owe to the sacrifices of those who went before us. Yet the seeming hopelessness of our plight robbed me of my insight.
We Gridanians have no love for war...
Yet we have still less for those who would threaten our homeland. Ever have we fought to protect those things we hold dear, and this shall never change.
Gridania will go to war. We will fight the Empire, for the sake of the realm and all who abide here!
Ahaha... Ahahahaha!
Hahaha! Hear, hear!
Hahahaha...
Hah hah hah hah!
At long last, I hear words worthy of a founder of the Alliance!
Raubahn! Are we to be outdone!?
I lost one homeland. The thought of losing another had blunted my resolve.
But no man knows better than I that if you want aught, you'd best be ready to die for it.
With great danger comes the chance for great glory, and great profit─we Ul'dahns, who have turned sand into gold, know this well.
How many times have we fallen into the pit of despair, only to have you pluck us out? I've fair lost count.
Reckless, the lot of you─like bloody pirates! Well, I won't waste my breath trying to talk you 'round...
...On account of being a pirate myself. And the pirate who shrinks from a challenge is no pirate at all!
Those who would pick a quarrel with us must choose: back down, or go down with all hands.
Let the Garleans come. The united strength of Limsa Lominsa will be waiting for them!
If our realm is to be free of this pall of darkness, let it be by our own hands!
