Elder Seedseer!
My lady!
I am come to express my gratitude for your valiant efforts before the Guardian Tree.
I am informed that an adventurer of singular talent now walks amongst us. You are she, are you not?
My name is Kan-E-Senna, and it is my solemn charge to watch over all who call Gridania home.
Well met and well come to our fair nation.
It was your valor that won us the day, I believe. On behalf of all Gridanians, I offer you my humblest thanks.
This gift I present to you as a small token of my gratitude. I hope that you will ever remain a friend to Gridania.
Greenbliss is coming. It is an age-old ceremony to renew the bond between man and elemental.
Over the centuries, it has blossomed into a joyous festival encompassing Gridanians from every walk of life.
I should be most gratified if you would participate in the ceremony as Emissary.
Such a great honor!
I look forward to seeing you on that most joyous of days.
Till then, fare you well. May you walk in the light of the Crystal.
None in Gridania can doubt your worth, Forename...
But to receive such praise from the Elder Seedseer herself!
And nor is that the half of it! She chose you to play the role of Emissary, for gods' sakes! You! An outsider! Do you have any idea what this means!?
<sigh> But of course you don't. You are not forestborn...which is rather the point. Mistake me not, I think you worthy, but your selection is all but unprecedented. And I'll wager you have not the faintest inkling what is required of you...
There are preparations that the Emissary must needs complete ahead of time. I suggest you consult Miounne regarding the matter─she is overseeing the arrangements for the event.
Now, you had best get going─the ceremony cannot commence without the Emissary. Oh, and, Forename...don't make a hash of this!
Well, well, if it isn't the Emissary herself! Had I known you were coming, I would have baked a pie!
You truly are full of surprises, Forename. Next you'll be telling me you're one of the Warriors of Light, back from a half-decade long holiday!
But let's speak of preparations. As you doubtless already know, Greenbliss is an age-old ceremony for strengthening the bond between man and elemental. These days, though, the name also refers to the festival at large.
In the ceremony, the Emissary serves as a conduit─a bridge between the people and the guardians of the Twelveswood. Suffice it to say, it is no small responsibility─nor does the Elder Seedseer choose mankind's representative on a whim.
Seldom in history have non-forestborn been chosen for the role─which should give you an idea of the magnitude of the honor being accorded you.
For your part, you are required to wear a ceremonial artifact, which is presently in the keeping of Timbermaster Beatin.
Go to the Carpenters' Guild and collect it from the man, then return to me for further instructions.
