Oh? Are you here to look at Queen Sphene too, Mister Rabbit?
That great big golden statue is exactly what she looks like. That's what my mum told me─and she's a scientist!
My mum also told me that the terminal is a tomb. Her Majesty must watch over all of us from there.
A play about the realm's founding? I love history, that sounds great!
I'll let my mum know so we can go and watch together. Thank you, Mister Rabbit!
You've finished making your rounds? Excellent! I shall take the costume off your hands.
Thanks to the two of you promoting the play in my stead, I could memorize the lines to my satisfaction. I am grateful beyond measure!
Don't mention it. It was fun meeting Endless children.
“Endless” children...? What an odd thing to say when we're Endless ourselves.
It's, er...complicated. I'd explain it to you, but the play's due to start soon, isn't it?
Aye, very soon. I must needs make my way to the venue and see to the final preparations.
Let's talk later, then. We'll be cheering you on from the crowd!
By all means. But hold on... What would you say to performing in the play as well?
A-Are you serious!?
Oh no, definitely not. I've never done anything like that, and I don't think I can learn lines on such short notice...
Hahaha! Rest assured it wouldn't be a difficult part.
What I have in mind for the two of you is a little swordplay─a duel between Alexandrian and Lindblum soldiers.
That is certain to please the children, and without the need for words.
Wh-What do you think?
Heh, that keen, are you? Alright, you asked for it!
Then it is settled! I shall prepare your costumes for you. You need but engage in a mock fight.
While there isn't time for a rehearsal, the little mistakes are all in good entertainment!
With that, I shall go and inform the troupe members of the changes. Pray make your way to Proto Alexandria and await further instructions.
That's the castle where the terminal is. When we shut it down, Yesterland and the Endless in it will also fade away...
So let's give them a show to remember.
And we'll remember them too. Them and what it is that they seek to preserve through this celebration.
Right, let's give it our best─and have us some fun!
Well, this seems to be the right place. What's on the program, I wonder.
And where are the others, for that matter...
