Please, may you aid the satrap in his endeavor, even as he aids you in yours.
I was put up in a guest room in the palace while I awaited my audience with Vrtra. I expect we'll be given the use of something similar.
Conducting our expedition out of the Rising Stones would raise just as many questions as recruiting too many Scions. At least here in Radz-at-Han, we might be expected to appear road-weary from our “local” explorations.
...And so we will require suitable accommodations. Might we make something available for our guests?
All the chambers are presently hosting the great mounds of treasure we carried out of the vault. Once the foundation's activities begin in earnest, however, we can redistribute the trove and make a room or two ready for habitation.
Good. Please inform me when you've completed the arrangements.
As you heard, we will have you settled in Meghaduta in due time.
As ever, you are most gracious, Your Excellency.
You risk yourselves to aid me in my search for Azdaja. Providing comfortable quarters is the least I can do.
I only wish we knew more about our destination. The gods only know how long our explorations might possibly take, or what our chances of success might possibly be...
Succeed or fail, I am grateful to you for convincing me to make the attempt.
On that note, I will return to the Great Work and lend what help I can to Nidhana. If you've preparations to make ere we venture into the Thirteenth, now is the time.
All I need is my armor and my lance. Perhaps I'll train with the Radiant Host to pass the time before we depart.
You know what this means to me, Forename, but my purpose need not consume you as well.
We are headed to another world. Find what joy you can in the experience. For you are a traveler─an adventurer at heart. This I know.
We are headed to another world. Find what joy you can in the experience. For you are a traveler─an adventurer at heart. This I know.
And thus I am returned.
To this world bereft of saviors...
Ah, excellent timing, Forename. Just a moment ago, I received word from the Ironworks.
They have completed their task, and are on their way with the reinforced warding scales.
Similarly, our alchemists have also succeeded in creating an artificial Atomos.
All is in readiness for our journey to the void.
I have instructed our comrades to gather at the Great Work. Let us head there at once.
Our comrades are here, but the Ironworks people have yet to arrive.
To thus create a voidsent... Hannish alchemists are as clever as they are bold.
There you are, Forename.
I present to you the fruits of the alchemists' labor: the artificial Atomos.
Though we've yet to put it to the proof, its aether is practically identical to that of the original. A truly remarkable feat in so short a time.
Aye, our alchemists have outdone themselves yet again. Small wonder that they are the pride of Radz-at-Han.
I would express my gratitude to Nidhana...but it appears she isn't here.
She rushed off after bringing the Atomos to attend to a pressing task, but said that she would return ere we set forth.
Which should be shortly after our friends from the Ironworks arrive with the warding scales...
Did someone say warding scales? Because it just so happens we have them.
Right on cue. 'Tis good to see you all again.
But for the president himself to attend... Keen to bear witness to our little experiment, are you?
You know I am. I was there at the Crystal Tower, lest you forget. I wouldn't miss this for the world.
You don't mind if we come along and see you off, I hope? It's thanks to these three that we could finish the work so quickly.
'Twas my painstakingly collected data that made the reinforcement possible.
The scales will last a good ten years in the void with nary a hint of degradation.
As the ones who did the actual reinforcing, we guarantee their quality as well. They'll keep you safe.
But enough bragging─here are the scales!
With these, we can search for my sister without fear of corruption. I know not how to repay you.
Well, my friend, my only regret is that I won't be able to accompany you on this latest grand adventure.
Wait!
Nidhana... Is aught the matter?
Before you depart, Your Excellency, there is something we wish to present to you.
Will you please come with me?
You would not delay us without good cause. Very well.
Forgive me, my friends, but I require a moment.
...He's certainly taking his time. What sort of grand present could take so long to receive?
The kind that'll help him in the void, I presume.
In that godsforsaken place, he'll need all the help he can get. But you of all people ought to know that, eh?
My apologies for keeping you waiting.
Vrtra, I presume.
Indeed. This vessel now serves as a host for my eye.
I was aware that the alchemists were busy preparing something, but this...
We couldn't well send you on such a perilous mission unprepared, Your Excellency.
We spared no effort in crafting the body, and I daresay you'll find it adept at wielding weapons and magicks both.
'Twas our intent to present it to you sooner, but we could not bring ourselves to do so knowing we could yet improve it further. Pray forgive us...
There is naught to forgive. I am grateful for this fine vessel, and shall put it to good use.
Again, I ask that you watch over Radz-at-Han in my absence. The dangers we go to face are great and many, and I fear I will be unable to give matters here due attention.
And in opening the voidgate, there is ever risk that voidsent will find their way into our world...
Rest assured we are more than prepared.
Our soldiers have been training under Master Estinien. On my honor, we will not suffer a single fiend to pass.
So think only of your mission, Varshahn.
Ah, but seeing as this is a different body, perhaps we should use a different name?
Nay, Varshahn shall suffice. Though I may have thus grown up, I am as ever a little brother to you all.
As you say, as you say. Go then, Varshahn, and best of luck!
I have something for you as well.
While you were gone, Urianger paid us a visit.
As you may recall, he joined us on our foray into Alzadaal's Legacy in part to conduct research for the Loporrits.
Research they were delighted to receive, and which has already inspired them to consider new ways to improve their own treasure vault.
As a token of their gratitude, Livingway entrusted a familiar relic to Urianger...
Aye, the crystal which showed the way to Meteion.
The Loporrits no longer have need of it, and thus saw fit to return it to us.
Harboring the power of Light, it could well aid us in our mission in the void.
And who better to bear Hydaelyn's gift than Her chosen champion?
If there is nothing left to discuss, then let us depart. Our boat awaits us in Akyaali.
The satrap and your fellows have already departed for the vault. Are you ready to set forth?
They've upgraded the vault's guardians to contend with voidsent. A task which was made easier by the surplus of broken units.
...One could argue that I did them a favor.
For my research into cross-rift travel, this is a moment of truth. For all those who helped us come this far, let us pray we succeed.
I shall now lift the seal.
In the name of Alzadaal III... I cast open this door unto the void!
Go! Absorb the voidgate!
It worked. We should have no trouble passing through a gate of that size.
What can we expect to find after stepping through?
On my previous foray, I emerged in a castle swarming with voidsent.
I was hopelessly outnumbered and forced to turn back. But together, I am confident we can hold our own.
Upon our arrival, let us deal with any hostile entities and secure the area.
The command of our mission, I leave in your capable hands.
In the event of battle, I shall adapt my tactics to complement your own.
Should we require healing, I can provide it. 'Twould be a welcome change of pace from my recent havoc wreaking.
Take heart, my friends, and have faith. We will brave this broken world and rescue my sister Azdaja!
While the voidgate is open, we must remain vigilant. One voidsent past us is one voidsent too many!
Once we've seen you off, we'll take our leave. Wouldn't want to get in the soldiers' way should it come to battle.
It'll be dangerous in the void, but you've been there before and returned safely. We have faith you'll do so again.
I expect a comprehensive report upon your return. 'Tis the least I am owed for my invaluable contribution.
To create a voidsent to expand a voidgate... It's inspired ideas like this that make the impossible possible!
I'm glad we can see you off properly─unlike when you were abruptly whisked away to the First. Anyway, please be safe!
No looking back... I shall keep my eyes ever forward, and trust Radz-at-Han to my people.
True to our friends' words, the warding scales are eminently reinforced. We needn't fear corruption even should we be wounded by voidsent.
First time in a reflection or no, I can't say I'm feeling nervous. Not after having journeyed to the edge of existence.
Quite literally a twisted place, the void.
Stay focused. Voidsent could be anywhere.
