Warning: an evacuation order is presently in effect. Entry to the Habisphere is not permitted at this time.
Foiled again... In all likelihood, the order would have been imposed during the Fourth Umbral Calamity, and I doubt it will be lifted in the near future.
Bzzz... Energy level critical. Returning to base for recharging.
Well...surely there must be some other way to gain access. Force, for example?
Hm. Ere we resort to that, I have an idea. Were we to send a surge of energy through yonder control mechanism, it should prompt the system to restart, releasing the locks.
As for a suitable energy source...a concentrated lightning shard might suffice. Happily, I seem to recall that they are known to form at points of stagnant aether throughout the continent.
You seem to recall? Are you honestly telling me that was in the records too?
Hah! I am. A report sent to the capital mentioned that lightning-aspected aether was prone to pooling on the continent, resulting in surges that interfered with equipment.
A minor detail, I grant you, but in my role as caretaker of the Crystal Tower, there was no such thing as too much Allagan knowledge.
Besides, my studies helped me to feel connected to the Source. To home.
I must have explored this facility a thousand times in my mind, but to finally stand here with the two of you... 'Tis more exhilarating than I can well express.
Now then, the lightning shard. If I may, I suggest we split up and search the Beta Quadrant. Oh, but beware of sprites─they are wont to manifest where the aether is stagnant.
Now you're just showing off. Which makes me think we should make a contest of this. The first to return here with a shard wins. What do you say?
Very well! It would be my honor to come third!
Bravo! That was quite a show, adventurer! Why, the spectacle proved so enthralling that all thoughts of the prize slipped my mind.
I appear to have forfeited our little race! Congratulations─the lightning shard is yours.
Forgive me, my friend. The scene so reminded me of our first meeting, I couldn't resist.
Ugh, you remember that? In my defense, I was caught up in the moment. It isn't every day you meet an honest-to-gods hero, after all.
Forgive me. The scene so reminded me of our first meeting, I couldn't resist.
Well, the contest continues, so you had better hurry back....Ah, but one last thing.
Thank you, Forename. For bringing me here.
It appears Alisaie had no luck, so victory is yours. Congratulations. Now then, may I have the shard?
<sigh> What is it that makes you so much better at finding things? What do you have that I don't?
That is a question I too have asked myself on numerous occasions. I suspect we could both learn a great deal from Forename─and not only about the secrets of adventuring. But come, we should attend to our mission.
Excellent, the system responded exactly as intended. We now have access to the Habisphere.
Only one obstacle remains: the security systems within. Should they be triggered, they could make life rather difficult for us.
In light of which, pray leave the rest to me. If I am right, my royal blood should allow me to venture in unmolested.
Assuming this place works like the Crystal Tower, yes. But if it doesn't, you'll be on your own. I want you to promise us that you'll get out at the first sign of trouble.
I promise. Wish me luck!
Well, nothing for it but to sit tight...
I'm sure this Owen fellow was very learned, but “Eikonic Corruption ─ An Overview” sounds like a Studium thesis. We all had to write one.
Lest you wonder, mine was about the combat applications of aether. I'm nothing if not practical...
Alphinaud's was more philosophical, of course. Political, dare I say it. He chose to write a lengthy discourse on our nation's duty to the world.
A controversial subject, to say the least.
He asserted that Sharlayan's knowledge should rightly be used to protect all life on the star─in direct opposition to the country's cherished policy of nonintervention. Being a leading member of the Forum, our father was...not happy.
At the time, of course, Alphinaud was utterly convinced of his views and would cheerfully argue to the death with anyone who saw things differently. By which I mean, the rows were long. To be fair to him, though, he's since learned to be a little more open-minded─but deep down he still holds fast to that one belief. And I admire him for it.
I should have liked to meet the young Alphinaud! For what it's worth, my thesis concerned the Allagan civilization as depicted in folklore.
Oh, you're back. I didn't know you attended the Studium?
I didn't─a thesis was required to earn my Archon's mark. My peers at the Students of Baldesion convinced me to write one with the promise of unfettered access to forbidden tomes!
Though I considered it no more than a means to an end at the time, I will admit it was gratifying to have my efforts acknowledged.
Good gods, an Archon's thesis... I shudder to imagine the work involved. But enough about that─is this the fruit of your foray?
Yes. Owen's archive node. It was waiting for me in his chamber.
If a copy of his report still survives, it would be stored in this device. Shall we find out?
