Slafborn! The shipment... We couldn't...
Gods, woman, what befell!?
We─ <cough> We were bringing a shipment to Revenant's Toll─provisions earmarked for the frontier effort.
But just as we sought to cross over into Mor Dhona, we were set upon by brigands. I─   I believe they may have been heretics.
They were many... Too many. We only escaped with our lives by abandoning the supplies. Pray forgive us!
There is naught to forgive. Provisions can be replaced, but smart soldiers are hard to find. Take your rest and I'll have someone along to tend to those wounds.
What to do...
If heretics are involved, then this is like to be more than a case of simple thievery. Ishgard will need to be informed.
Whence did these supplies originate?
House Fortemps─we collected the provisions from Camp Dragonhead proper.
Understood. I shall see that they are apprised of this development.
Forename, were you not on good terms with the knights of House Fortemps?
I will be sending them a missive immediately, of course, but I would also have you travel there and offer your considerable talents.
...Yes, I realize I contradict my earlier hopes to lighten your load, but I need someone who can help bring this incident to a satisfactory conclusion─our favorable relations with Ishgard are far too important to risk half measures.
Thank you for your understanding. I am certain Lord Haurchefant will be glad of your assistance.
Well, well, if it isn't my fine friend, Forename Surname! Would you care for a plate of roast karakul? Some mulled wine?
No? Ah, I see you have not come into my hall merely to escape the biting cold.
I was, in fact, on the verge of opening an urgent missive from Revenant's Toll, and I suspect the timing of your arrival is no coincidence...
The incident with the new frontier hands? No, no, you need not elaborate─I have been following their progress with no small amount of interest.
Brave men and women all... They do our nation a great service. The existence of a fortified outpost in Mor Dhona will do much to dissuade the Empire from trespassing on Coerthan soil.
Right glad am I that you have chosen to lend your support to this endeavor. Never let it be said that House Fortemps does not acknowledge the efforts of her allies...or her debts.
'Twas in the spirit of gratitude that I arranged for sundry supplies to be delivered to Revenant's Toll. That the shipment should chance to be waylaid by heretics is poor fortune, indeed.
Poor fortune, I say...yet not without precedent. If you would know the truth of it, these incorrigible villains grow more organized with each passing day.
This new unity of purpose we attribute to their leader─the Lady “Iceheart.” But though I have devoted significant resources to the task of identifying this woman, we have yet to learn so much as her birthname.
What we do know is that the heretics speak of Iceheart in reverent tones, and would gladly embrace death rather than betray her. Such loyalty is rare indeed, and I fear to imagine what so committed a collective might achieve.
The brigands have not yet been so brazen as to risk direct confrontation here in Dragonhead. Some few of their number have, however, been sighted not far to the west of here...and with ever-increasing regularity.
A visit to Whitebrim Front may bring you the answers you seek. Will you brave the snows knowing what implacable foes may lie in wait?
Halone's blessings be upon you! Though I take no pride in the admission, many of mine own countrymen are not so well suited as you adventurers to dealing with such foes. Were they dragons, it might be otherwise!
But truly, I could not wish for a finer ally. You have done much for my house in the past, and I have no doubt but that I shall have cause to celebrate your deeds again ere long.
Should you learn aught of value, pray return to me forthwith. A warm hearth and a warmer welcome shall be waiting for you.
Forename, welcome, welcome. You'll be pleased to know that the repairs to Stone Vigil proceed apace. We shall rebuild sure and strong, that the Dravanians might batter themselves senseless against our shield in the west....I would venture, however, that matters of masonry are not what brought you to Whitebrim.
...On the trail of a band of thieving heretics, you say? By the Fury, but you do seem destined to cross paths with those villains.
I must confess, then, 'tis a sad truth that the wilds hereabouts have indeed grown thick with their number. They strike swiftly, without warning, and are canny enough to evade our most able trackers.
But 'tis not merely their newfound organization that confounds us: the heretics themselves seem somehow changed.
I know not what manner of influence this Iceheart wields, but the men we face seem utterly lost in the grip of righteous fervor. 'Tis an unsettling and unnatural zeal.
Mayhaps you would care to question one of their recent victims? As fate would have it, your arrival came moments after a trader was waylaid on the road.
A patrol found the unfortunate fellow lying senseless in the snow, and carried him to our infirmary. Assuming he has regained the use of his faculties, the merchant might recall some small detail that could aid you in your task.
