It is an honor, Antecedent. Upon receiving word of your intentions from Master Alphinaud, we thought it best to begin talks at the earliest available opportunity.
Know that my associates at Revenant's Toll hold the Scions of the Seventh Dawn in the highest regard. We should be honored to welcome your organization.
There are, of course, certain provisions which must needs be negotiated. If it please you, I would do so.
It does.
Madam, unless I am much mistaken, you are the one known as Forename, are you not? May I say what a pleasure it is to make your acquaintance.
Slafborn spoke of you in the most glowing terms. To steal an imperial reaper and then use it to infiltrate a Garlean castrum is an undertaking few would contemplate─and fewer still survive.
You shall always be welcome at Revenant's Toll. We hope you will favor us with your presence again ere long.
Well, well! It would seem your reputation precedes you, Forename! Mayhap I should dispatch you to Revenant's Toll with all haste, as first intended...
But before that, I daresay you have earned yourself a rest. After all, you have traveled so far, and there is already so much you have done for us...and for me.
We will speak again anon. Till then, take care.
Ah, Forename. Were you able to get some rest? I would ask you to come with me to the solar. Alphinaud has just returned, and it would seem there is something he would share with us.
You're here. Good. I come bearing news.
The negotiations are concluded.
And?
Our friends at the Adventurers' Guild have agreed to furnish us with new facilities and material support in exchange for our assistance in the ongoing defense and development of Revenant's Toll.
The Scions of the Seventh Dawn shall have a new home in Mor Dhona: the Rising Stones.
A bittersweet victory, if truth be told. I cannot deny that I had come to look forward to Tataru's tales of our many guests and their many, many demands.
From the Waking Sands to the Rising Stones... Passably poetic. That wasn't your doing, was it?
I too have news to share. In expectation of this momentous day, I personally informed the Alliance leaders of our plans, and they have each pledged their full support─General Raubahn included.
Moreover, I have decided that the time is right for us to cast off the vestiges of our order's veil of secrecy and announce ourselves to the world.
Are you sure that is wise, Antecedent?
If anything, it is a mere formality. Our existence is quite possibly the worst kept secret in Eorzea.
Let us affirm our identity, proclaim our achievements, that all may know what the Scions of the Seventh Dawn stand for!
Well...obvious risks apart, it would be nice to receive a little more recognition...
And the people have a right to know who saved them!
It is my hope that this gesture will encourage the people of Eorzea to place their trust in us. I would reveal to them the true extent of our power, yes, but in so doing, I would show them that it is a power accountable to no one, and at once to all.
...And what of us? We who have felled primals and faced down the Empire. To you, my fellow Scions, I would say this: prepare for the challenges which lie ahead, for they will be great indeed.
Great, I say, yet no greater than us. And we will rise to them, as we have time and again...united as one!
Hmm... There must be some way I can─ Wait, that area is said to be rich in minerals. Maybe I should ask F'lhaminn to teach me the basics of mining too...
Do you ever wonder how he does it? Alphinaud, I mean. It was almost predictable that he should appear with an emissary of the Adventurers' Guild mere moments after I had expressed the need to forge ties between our organizations. Truly, his sense of timing rivals even your own...
Setting such mysteries aside for the present─I have a task for you.
I would like you to deliver these documents to Slafborn. They concern our forthcoming move. Do take care on the road, and represent us well, Forename.
I was told to expect a Scion, but I didn't expect it to be you. It has been far too long, Forename. You have something for me, yes?
Let's see, now... Yes, everything appears to be in order.
You'll be staying with us for a while, yes? Would that we had a dozen more like you. Since we don't, though, we'll just give you the work of a dozen men. Heh! I jest, I jest...
Back to do the work of a dozen men, I see? Hah! But I jest...
Even I can appreciate that an important woman such as yourself has little time for menial tasks.
But since you're here, mayhap you'd be keen on having a look around the Scions' new home. See that impressive structure over there? That's the place.
It was originally built to house a branch of the guild, you see. As such, it comes complete with a tavern where adventurers can rest from the road, fill their bellies with good food and drink, and their ears with tales of fortunes to be had about the realm.
It may get a bit raucous at times, but I imagine it'll be as good a place as any to recruit capable men and women to your cause. Come with me, I'll show you around─
Is that you, Forename!? I'm quite sorry to interrupt, but I have most urgent news!
We received grim tidings from Gridania, and it would appear our aid is required at once. I must ask you to report back to the Waking Sands with all due haste!
Is everything quite all right, friend?
I can't say I'm privy to the details, but it would appear this is no time for a leisurely tour. But no worries─you can rest assured that I'll see to all necessary arrangements. Pray return any time after you've seen to your more pressing matters.
A messenger from the Twin Adder came to the Waking Sands while you were in Mor Dhona. I wasn't privy to his conversation with the Antecedent, but I did see the look on her face after he took his leave. Something is definitely amiss.
Could it be that the Ixal have summoned Garuda again!? Or mayhap imperial forces have been sighted within the Shroud!
Well, whatever it may be, I'm absolutely certain it's nothing you can't handle. Now go and ask the Antecedent if there's anything you can do!
I knew this day would come, yet I prayed it would not come so soon.
We have reason to believe that another primal─or an entity resembling one─has been summoned in Gridania.
Thine arrival is customarily timely, Forename. The aetheric waves leave little room for doubt; thy talents will be needed ere long.
If there be truth in my suspicions, 'tis a familiar foe we face, though one quite unlike the Lady of the Vortex...
We dare not draw conclusions without evidence, but as Urianger says, the readings bear a strong resemblance to ones observed more than five years ago.
<sigh> Though I had hoped the Mogglesguard beyond such follies...
Suffice it to say, this disturbance warrants a full investigation.
Thy presence hath been requested by Commander Heuloix. He awaiteth thee at the Adders' Nest.
Pray hasten to Gridania, Forename. Yda and Papalymo will rendezvous with you there. May you walk in the light of the Crystal.
A pleasure to see you as always, Forename.
Thank you for answering my summons. Quite frankly, I could think of no one more qualified to─ Ah, but we're getting ahead of ourselves. Allow me to explain...
Not long ago, the moogle Kuplo Kopp visited the Adders' Nest to request an audience with the Elder Seedseer.
He spoke of an imminent threat to all mooglekind, one which would imperil the entire Twelveswood if left unchecked.
You proved an able ambassador to the sylphs, and we would have you reprise the role in our dealings with the moogles.
The rest you should hear from Kuplo Kopp himself. He awaits you with the Elder Seedseer at the Lotus Stand.
The other Scions have already arrived, madam. May I show you in?
Please, you have to stop them! B-But you mustn't kill them! They're not bad moogles, kupo! They're just...misguided! A gentle─no, firm thrashing is in order, yes, but no─
