Bweee!
Bweee!
Bweee!
That looks like the “trees” in Greatest Endsvale!
Hold on, that's a bit of a strange shape... It's thin at the bottom but big and round at the top. Quite tall for something so unbalanced, too.
Now it makes sense! That's where they store the water!
Hmm... It's a little hard to see from here, but is that a golden pipe connected to the top of those tanks?
And I can see through that window another pipe at the bottom...
Ah! This must be for purifying water drawn up from below!
Is that water I hear from inside that great big tube?
It must be because of those cogs and that gigantic wheel at the top.
Oh, I see! That's how they draw up the water! There's probably some sort of spiral-shaped mechanism inside it, too.
Well, if I were to hazard a guess, water drawn from underground─presumably with some other mechanism─is purified here and stored in that tower before being distributed elsewhere.
I'm right, aren't I?
I knew it! A design brilliant in its simplicity. I daresay it would take only a moment to install in even the harshest of environments. For us Loporrits, that is!
Indeed, securing a reliable source of water is of the utmost importance for any fledgling settlement.
We have read, however, that peoples of Etheirys sometimes make their homes in arid deserts and such. How are they able to survive?
So wherever you choose to live, you're never far from water...
Oh dear... I worry we won't be able to procure the necessary amount!
We can provide enough water to keep them from drying out completely, but it would appear they rely on it far more than we'd anticipated!
Hmm... A few adjustments may be in order, once we've calculated the average rate of consumption per individual...
It may also be worth learning more about how exactly they obtain their water in the first place.
Master Alphinaud spoke of the machinery responsible for that feat during our journey through Logistikon Alpha, did he not?
Mayhap the Loporrits will share his appreciation for the engineering marvel.
Oh, yes! That sounds absolutely splendid!
We must journey beyond the sanctuary of Sharlayan Hamlet. I shall lead the way.
Y-You mean we'll have to brave the untamed wilderness!?
A valid concern indeed. We could not help but notice the many dangerous-looking creatures with big, nasty teeth lurking beyond the safe confines of this settlement.
Were we not escorted here by burly custodians, I dread to think what would have become of us!
Regrettably, to many a hungry predator with the aforementioned big, nasty teeth, Loporrits may appear to be a potential and rather appetizing source of sustenance...
Might I impose upon thee to assist in securing safe passage to Logistikon Alpha?
For my part, I shall act as escort to Livingway and Cookingway. I entrust Singingway and Growingway to thy care.
A more valiant protector they could not wish for. Godsspeed.
If it's all the same to you, I'd rather not be eaten by some horrid beastie.
Come along, Growingway. To the water extraction wotsit!
I've a feeling the way forward is not as clear as we'd like... Could you go and take a look?
Perhaps you could tell the local beasties we're not nearly as delicious as we might appear!?
I say! That fiend had a mind to feast on roasted Loporrit!
Th-Thank you so m-much...
I really hope this water extraction wotsit is worth these harrowing experiences!
All part of the fun, some might say, but I'd rather not be burnt to a crisp, if it's all the same to you!
You've done well to see those two here safely. They can be a bit skittish at the best of times, so I'm pleasantly surprised they didn't run off and get themselves killed!
That was all very exciting, but I'd rather not do it again... Wait. How exactly were we planning to head back later?
Let's get moving! That building looks nice and solid and safe!
I couldn't help noticing a distinct lack of carrots along the way. Or many of the other vegetables I was expecting to see, though I did catch a glimpse of some sort of bipedal tomato charging about. Must be my imagination.
My friends, I bid you welcome to Logistikon Alpha.
Our destination doth lie at the lift's top. Pray, follow me.
On this occasion, 'twould behoove us to seek the counsel of those qualified to describe the workings of the apparatus. They may also be in possession of schematics or other useful documentation, should the Loporrits request them.
As the Forum's esteemed guests, 'tis unlikely that they would be refused, yet thou knowest as well as I the changeable dispositions of Sharlayan bureaucrats.
That was terrifying, but at least the scenery was more pleasant than wossname...Garlemald! As a first impression of Etheirys, it was far from favorable.
Anyway, onwards and upwards! Quite literally, as is the case here!
As I understand, places like Labyrinthos are the exception, rather than the rule. You don't all build enormous, underground living spaces like this, surely?
Forgive me for asking, but are we any closer to the kitchens? Come to think of it, why am I even here? Atmospheric manipulators are hardly my area of expertise.
Marvelous! Simply marvelous! So, this is where the magic─or science, rather─takes place! The perfect environment to sustain life, artificially created!
The knowledge we'll gain here will be essential when we start looking for new stars for your kind to inhabit. Apparently, most of them don't even have air for you to breathe!
You're all very lucky that Etheirys just so happens to provide everything you need to thrive. Or did mankind turn out the way they are because of the available resources, I wonder?
Either way, it's nothing short of miraculous! And I cannot wait to see more of it!
I should like to study this primitive yet nevertheless intriguing contraption a while longer, if I may. That the Sharlayans were able to build something of this complexity with their limited knowledge and resources is most impressive!
This is all very wonderful, I'm sure, but I was rather hoping to learn more about your nourishment provision facilities. In other words, where is the food?
I believe both the knowledge and consumables you seek may be found at Meryall Agronomics.
As I imagine Singingway and the others intend to study every conceivable facet of this apparatus, wouldst thou be so kind as to escort our visiting culinarian?
Yes, that sounds much more interesting! Hopefully, I'll be able to see firsthand some of the delicacies Urianger was telling me about.
Even his incredibly vivid─if a bit too verbose─descriptions cannot compare to sampling them myself. Not to mention Etheirys will soon be no more...so I must learn all I can while there is still time!
Let us brook no further delay!
'Twould appear I have inadvertently taken upon myself the more demanding duty─entertaining three inquisitive Loporrits to thy one. Yet be that as it may, 'twill be my pleasure to impart what little knowledge I possess to our would-be saviors.
This is the place, yes? The heady aroma was enough to guide me here, and I've spotted several of the fruit and vegetables featured in our compendium!
I'd dearly love to try some, but I read that those who help themselves to a farmer's crops without permission are often caught and put into pies!
Perhaps you could ask whoever's in charge if they would be willing to part with a few samples?
I suppose if they did put me in a pie, I could just eat my way out. Wait, they get quite hot inside, don't they? On second thought, let's stick to the plan for now.
Oh. Something else to attend to? It's all right, I'll wait here. Patiently...and hungrily.
Sampling foodstuffs is the very reason I wanted to visit Etheirys!
<sigh> What a fine mess this is...
Ah, it's you, the one who climbed down the mineshaft!
I'd show you around if I could, but I'm rushed off my feet preparing for the exodus.
And I'm not the only one. We've all got to find ways to do what we do down here up there─first on the moon, then on whichever star the Forum decides will become our new home.
It's all so sudden...so unreal...
Don't you want to go to the moon?
Well, it's better than waiting for the Final Days to claim us...
But no matter how carefully it's all planned, we'll never be able to take every variety of flora and fauna with us.
Even the ones we can take may not survive in their new environment. So many species, doomed to extinction...
Sorry, that's not what you came to talk about, is it?
Nothing quite so dire, I assure you. We merely wish to sample a little of your produce, if we may?
By all means, help yourselves.
Much appreciated, my good fellow!
So, where to begin?
As Urianger informs me, the key to exquisite cuisine lies in selecting only the very best ingredients.
I've an enormous list of seeds, saplings, and whatnot to take to the Central Circuit. But I suppose that means anything not on the list is to be left behind... What a waste.
Oh! I know what these are! Grapes, yes?
Let's see if they are as delicious as they look...
So sweet, so sour! The taste is much like a ripe philosopher's carrot...and yet the texture is entirely different.
The contrast between the outer skin and the fruit within is most peculiar, though far from unpleasant. Yes, I think I'll try another...
Well, that's certainly given me food for thought, though in a far less visceral manner than any philosopher's carrot... But tell me, what is your opinion of grapes?
Yes, they are rather moreish, aren't they? And from what I've read, quite versatile, too. Something about people stepping on them to make intoxicating beverages, as I recall.
Meh? An expression of indifference, I assume. In all fairness, our compendium did n ote they are values more as an ingredient for spirituous beverages than as a fruit for regular consumption.
How odd! No accounting for taste, is there?
Anyway, that's enough about grapes for the time being. On to the next treat!
Orange by name, orange by nature!
What came first, the fruit or the color? Who cares? Let's eat!
Mmm... Yes, that's... Mmm!
Equal parts sweet and sour, as with the grapes, yet nothing alike. Hmm... I may have to consult Urianger about expanding my vocabulary. I simply cannot find the words to describe it!
Perhaps what I'm looking for is, “bitter.” This is all very complicated, you know. So many flavors, so many choices... And each individual with their own personal preferences...
Now I see why you all turned your noses up at the idea of eating nothing but carrots! Marvelous though they still are in my estimation─let no one say I said otherwise!
Ah, but speaking of carrots, I've yet to sample any of the vegetables. Let's see what's in that field over there!
That color...that texture... Are they some sort of enormous, round carrots?
No? In any case, proper nomenclature is less of a concern than the taste...
Blech! It's so hard and flavorless, I may as well be chewing a piece of wood! That all but confirms it─these are nothing more than misbegotten failures masquerading as goodly carrots!
