You there. You're an adventurer, yes? Eager to stare into the very depths of wickedness, am I right? Good, good, because we're in dire need of just such a dauntless soul.
All Saints' Wake is upon us, you see, and that means the fiends of the realm clamor to plunge Gridania into a sea of chaos.
Oh my stars, could it be? The selfsame adventurer who helped us keep wickedness at bay and transformed All Saints' Wake from a night of screams into a day of revelry?
Thank the Twelve for bringing you to us, for the fiends of the realm knock at our door once again, and we need a dauntless soul to help us ensure they don't tear it off its hinges!
The host of this year's parade of horrors is a woman with a pumpkin for a head. I shudder to consider whether this is some elaborate costume, or─no, perhaps it is best not to know.
Her strange appearance makes my skin crawl, to say nothing of her underlings... Why, one might think the Continental Circus was come again, hiding their monstrous intentions behind the guise of celebration!
We can be grateful that none have yet fallen under their spell, but I fear it is only a matter of time. We must act quickly to unearth their schemes.
I would begin a thorough investigation at once, but I'm afraid my surveillance duties here prevent me from moving freely. That, my friend, is why I need you.
Approach this pumpkin-headed witch under the flag of friendship, and offer your services to her ghastly celebration. If you catch even a whiff of foul deeds, I want you to put a stop to them before any innocents come to harm.
I knew I could count on you! Now then, you can find our quarry just across the way at Mih Khetto's Amphitheatre, where she is doubtless attempting to draw any and all passersby into her ungodly procession. Humor her for now, but take care not to fall victim to her honeyed words.
The pumpkin-headed woman can be found at Mih Khetto's Amphitheatre, where she is attempting to coax the commonfolk into her terrifying cadre. Put on a mask of friendliness, and put an end to any evil she may be brewing up.
Heh heh... Have you come to join the glorious celebration that is All Saints' Wake? All are encouraged, and all are welcome.
Heh heh... It is you. I knew your arrival was inevitable, for any who once indulge in the revelry of All Saints' Wake cannot resist a chance to relive their experience.
Oh, such eagerness. We are ever in need of willing hands to help with the festivities─preferably with bodies still attached.
Of course, I understand a certain meddlesome investigator has tasked you with uncovering any iniquity on my part. Do I have demons and devils at my beck and call? I admit that I do. However, I mean no harm to you and yours, so I hope that our partnership can be mutually beneficial.
Of course, I understand you have been tasked with bringing to light any iniquity on my part. But you know from experience that I am perfectly harmless, so you are free to conduct your little “investigation,” if it pleases you.
Together, I believe we can make this All Saints' Wake into one that will be remembered for moons to come. Yet before we begin, allow me to illuminate the history of this event and our intentions here.
On this most unhallowed of nights, the saints revel in their palatial heavens, and as their judgmental eyes become leaden from drink, the impure are free to feast and frolic without fear of punishment.
In ages past, the commonfolk would rue the coming of this night and cower in their homes. That is, until the adventurers took it upon themselves to rid the streets of evil, thus turning the event into a celebration of your collective bravery.
...A joyous happening, to be sure. But what of the goblin, the ghost, and the gremlin? Unfortunately, there are many monstrous sorts who yet consider this a night to spread fear like a plague.
And so it struck me: what if All Saints' Wake could be an occasion for celebration among mortal and monster alike? I believe there is room for light in even the darkest of hearts.
Which brings me to the question of your involvement. I would have you aid a minion of mine named Papa Gruff in facilitating an All Saints' Wake that will allow yours and mine to join hands in mutual merriment.
Perhaps you know Papa Gruff. He was once a voidsent so depraved that his kin spoke of him only in hushed whispers. But I have since shackled─or rather, politely reasoned with him to commit devilry no more.
Knowing of his formidable magical prowess, I have set him to work under these guiding words: “Frighten enough to tickle, but not scar.”
Fear need not be an unpleasant experience, and Papa Gruff is doing his utmost to strike that delicate balance between felicity and fright. Not with much success, as I understand.
I would love to proffer him advice myself, but I believe one such as you would know better what appeals to the mortals of this city. Might you give our beleaguered Papa Gruff a few words of advice?
Heh heh... Thank you, truly.
He should be putting on a performance near the Leatherworkers' Guild at present, assuming he has yet to be chased from Gridania's borders. Please speak with him, and give him my...encouragement.
Papa Gruff decided the best place to dazzle the people of Gridania would be the Leatherworkers' Guild. I understand he is having trouble keeping his audience engaged, which runs markedly counter to the stipulations of our, ah...agreement. Needless to say, he requires your help.
That pumpkin-headed harpy is up to no good, I can feel it in my gut. I trust you will do your utmost to uncover her evil plot.
