Ah, splendid, most splendid!
Allow me to introduce myself. I am Ahewann, satrap of Radz-at-Han.
Our alchemists tell me your assistance was invaluable in the creation of the warding scale.
Such deeds ought to be recognized in person, thus did I have young Varshahn convey you here forthwith. On behalf of my people, may I express to you our sincere gratitude.
A regrettable incident, indeed.
I assume you speak of Nidhana? A regrettable incident, indeed.
Her colleagues insist that we honor her wishes, and trust in the talisman─that it will be instrumental in saving Nidhana and the others.
I am eager to hear your opinion on the matter, so let us not stand on ceremony. Come, sit.
I think not.
This charade has gone on long enough. Show yourself.
Forgive me, but were you expecting musicians perhaps? There are no performers waiting in the wings at present, but arrangements could be made if you'd prefer─
Nay, he hath the right of it─the time for artifice is past. Raise the curtain.
As you wish.
You travel as assistants to the Students of Baldesion, but you are known to me.
Even here have we heard of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.
I am Vrtra, and for years uncounted hath this isle served as mine abode.
Vrtra! Of the first brood, sibling to Hraesvelgr and Nidhogg!
Aye, mine elder brothers. Of Midgardsormr's spawn, I was last to hatch.
Well, isn't this a surprise! We were told Radz-at-Han had an alliance with a dragon, not that a great wyrm sat in the satrap's own hall...
A necessary subterfuge, as the true tale of our nation's history illustrates most effectively.
In the beginning, the rock upon which our city is built was home to Vrtra, and Vrtra alone.
In time, the ancestors of the Matanga came to the island and established a foothold, but never did they dare disturb the wyrm's lair.
Next to arrive were the Au Ra. Adopting the example of their Arkasodara allies, they too treated Vrtra with reverence and respect.
And for many years, an understanding between our forefathers and the great wyrm endured...
...Until marauding Hyurs from the mainland came, threatening to shatter our peace and tranquility.
When it seemed all would be drowned in blood, Vrtra himself came forth and quelled the rising conflict.
A peaceful accord was reached, and oaths sworn in Vrtra's name. Thus began the dragon's governance of the fledgling state which was to grow into Radz-at-Han.
But... If Vrtra is still here, then your position as satrap is just...
...A “charade”? Yes, and one which my family has performed faithfully for generations.
Many envy the great wyrms their power. Were it known that I ruled here, then the fires of war would burn without end.
I would not be the flame which consumeth my people. Those few who joined me in laying our country's foundations were, perforce, sworn to secrecy.
Your eye. It was taken?
'Tis here. Buried within this semblance of flesh.
The body before thee is but a simulacrum, constructed by the finest artisans of Radz-at-Han. With mine eye nestled within, it doth serve as an inconspicuous vessel for my will.
Ah. That would explain why I felt the presence of a dragon upon our first meeting.
I am woven with wards fashioned to deceive such arcane senses.
Though 'twas short-lived, it seemeth thy fusion with my brother hath left thee much altered, Estinien Wyrmblood.
From the very first, we sensed the nature of one another. Yet did neither one of us bare his fangs.
That is all I need know of thee for now.
With my secret thus revealed, I have for you a proposal. Not as a wyrm of the first brood, but as the ruler of Radz-at-Han.
With all haste must we take in hand the finished talismans and breach this foul spire. Thence, should it lay within our power, dispel its wicked influence.
Yet even with the assurance of the warding scales, the narrow confines of the tower doth limit the size of our force.
And thus denied strength in numbers, thou must choose thy soldiers with care.
Just so. Yet though our Radiant Host is formidable, I see a surer path before me.
Thou and thy comrades have contended with a multitude of primal beings. Most recently thou didst cast down false gods in Paglth'an and Carteneau, I am told.
'Tis upon that strength I would call. The Scions have proven themselves most capable, and I ask that you serve as the tip of our spear.
Talismans would, of course, be provided for each of thy companions.
And should you agree to this undertaking, more will be provided to make use of as you see fit.
There's no denying it's a dangerous proposition, but the rewards may far outweigh the risk. Just think of what we might accomplish if we could equip all our allies with warding scales.
I worry, however, that even the four of us may be too few for what you have in mind. Might we regroup with our friends first to discuss the matter?
'Tis no trifling task that I have laid before you. Go, steel your hearts and hone your plans─such time as you require shall we spend in crafting your protective charms.
It seems a quick trip back to Sharlayan is in order...
Wilt thou not lend thine aid?
Whether your request be made as a great wyrm or the ruler of Radz-at-Han, I see no reason to refuse. Nor will I.
I am in thy debt.
That we should encounter one of the first brood in such a circumstance...
If our course of action is decided, let's not tarry.
That meeting took a rather unexpected turn, but we now have a clear objective ahead of us.
Let us rejoin our comrades in Sharlayan, and muster a suitable crew for our foray into the Tower of Zot.
Oh, and if you haven't already done so, be sure to attune to the aetheryte here before departing. Unless of course you enjoy violent nausea...
The conflict between Nidhogg and I is in the past, and though they were brothers, it has no bearing on my view of Vrtra.
Above all else, he is a leader of men, not an enemy. He would hardly dedicate his life to this endeavor if he bore our kind any ill will.
Vrtra and his alchemists have prepared us for our foray into the tower. What we may accomplish within its twisted halls remaineth to be seen.
That Arkasodara languish in Telophoroi chains doth forewarn us of the nature of our foe─'tis the gods of Thavnair who will be summoned to thwart us.
Just as I was getting used to balmy Thavnair, we're back in chilly Sharlayan... Take care not to catch your death, eh? We need you for the battles to come.
Now then, your investigation here remains, but when that's over, we can take stock of all the developments and discoveries.
Now then, everyone appears to be here, so let us take stock of all the developments and discoveries.
I returned by way of Kytte's experimental aetheryte, yet I must say, it was far less taxing than our first attempt. And apparently, we need only ask if we wish to use it again.
Now, I'm not terribly eager to repeat the experience... But if you're willing to test your aetherial fortitude for the sake of technological advancement, then who am I to stop you?
Since there has been progress in both investigations, shall we share the findings from our respective locales?
Your time in Thavnair has certainly been eventful.
In my opinion, carrying out Vrtra's request and assaulting the Tower of Zot should be our highest priority.
I agree. While I still have questions concerning the Forum and their grand undertaking, we have all but exhausted our avenues of investigation.
Simply pressing them any harder on the subject will almost certainly result in our expulsion. Therefore I suggest we explore the aetherial sea connection by way of a letter to Master Matoya, then make our way to Thavnair.
I wonder... Even with the protection these talismans afford us, what can we hope to achieve once inside the tower?
According to Arenvald and Fordola's report, they were unable to free the Amalj'aa. Worse, their attempts triggered the tower's defenses, which led to a summoning of Lunar Ifrit.
What does it tell us that the spires even have such defenses?
Simply pulling a prisoner from the wall is fatal, thus the direct approach is doomed to failure from the outset. Any further measures to dissuade such actions seem...unnecessary.
Unless, of course, there is a way to free the prisoners without killing them. Then it stands to reason that any intruders would be met with overwhelming force.
The towers appeared throughout the world in but the twinkling of an eye. 'Twas by magical means these structures were raised, I surmise.
A spire thus conjured must needs be maintained, and I suspect an arcane catalyst─some manner of “core”─doth lie hidden within.
Destroy the core, and the tower ceaseth to be...thus liberating the captives without harm!
So we can hope. And I would prefer to enter the tower with a working theory than with no plan at all.
Assuming Y'shtola's reasoning is correct, the chances of the defenses remaining dormant are small to none.
Any primals will have to be dealt with, and defeating one will likely only lead to the summoning of another. Our every victory will only compound the prisoners' suffering.
May we not then divide our forces?
Those proficient in healing will focus on sustaining the captives. That duty can be covered by Urianger, Krile, Y'shtola, and myself.
The remaining Scions will proceed with the search for the core. Admittedly, this strategy puts both parties at greater risk, but it should bolster our chances of saving the Arkasodara by a considerable margin.
If you're to fight primals, then you'd best have at least one healer with you.
And I am more than happy to fulfill that role. I've found wielding a sage's armaments to be rather intuitive, and look forward to testing them against a more challenging foe.
That she does, but I think Alisaie herself would assert that she's at her best when she's charging unto the breach.
And from what I recall from the Grand Cosmos, there's a spring in her step when she fights by your side.
Ye gods, will you never let me hear the end of that? Rest assured that I will do what is asked of me regardless of who I happen to be standing next to at any given time!
Of course not! As our most talented healer, we need you leading the van, fighting primals on the front lines.
It seems we have a plan; all that remains is to carry it out. I will inform Radz-at-Han of our movements, so let us make our preparations and regroup near the tower.
The military post in what's left of the Hamsa Hatchery should serve as a convenient staging point.
That sounds perfect! And remember: the experimental aetheryte at the Confluence is there for those who need it, so there's no excuse for being late!
Ah, our friend of Eorzea, we've been expecting you! You and yours will lead the mission into the tower, I'm told.
The warding scales will be delivered soon. Till then, please stand by at the boat we have readied.
When your fellows arrive, I will direct them to join you. We pray for your safety and success!
If the satrap trusts you and yours to lead the mission, then you must be formidable warriors indeed.
Glad are we to count you as allies!
Unnngh... If this is the future of aetheryte travel, I think I'll stick to boats...
Aye... No warning, however emphatic, could have prepared me for that...
On account of which we are a little late, but fighting fit! Mostly.
My friends, permit me to thank you for accepting this mission.
You must be...hm... We should still call you Varshahn, I suppose?
Indeed. It would not do to confuse our soldiers.
Very well, then.
For our part, we are humbled that you should see fit to entrust us with your warding scales. Please convey as much to His Excellency.
One for each of you. Please accept them with my blessings.
Our thanks. With these, we can go anywhere those with the blessing of Light can go.
Not only for this operation either, but all the ones to come. We can finally break your monopoly on primals.
So have we, my friend. So have we.
Hah, spoken like our champion. Rest assured we'll ever have need of you, though we will do what we can to lighten your burden.
Ah, but I'm afraid we can't let you retire just yet. You're the Scions' brightest star, after all.
If everyone is amenable to it, let us review the strategy for good measure.
As previously agreed, we will divide into two groups.
Forename and her band will break through the tower's defenses and locate its core.
Meanwhile, the rest of us will tend to the prisoners, who will doubtless want for healing due to the duress of repeated summonings.
The primals which the tower bringeth forth shall be deities of Thavnairian myth.
As we have no prior experience with such foes, pray exercise the utmost caution when confronting them.
We commence the operation at your word, my friend.
For the people of Thavnair─nay, the entire world─we must prevail!
The Radiant Host and I will be watching from the outpost, ready to act at the first sign of unusual activity.
May the scales serve you well, and protect you in lieu of Vrtra's fangs and claws.
This is the closest I've ever been to one of the towers. Such a sinister aura it exudes...
It's been a while since last I took to the field, and I can't help but feel nervous. But with everyone at my side, I'm sure all will be well!
Though our parties are separate, I will trust in you─as I know you will trust in me.
Let us both give it our all, and add another rousing chapter to the saga!
Aside from primals, within the tower we shall for a certainty encounter enthralled imperial soldiers.
Defenders conveyed hither by means unknown, who will stop at nothing to hinder our efforts...
Lest you worry, I've not forgotten my healing spells.
Be it restoration or destruction, this sorceress can command whatever magicks the situation requires.
With Y'shtola keeping them company, the other party will be able to hold their own against the enemy if needs be.
So we can tackle our own task without worrying over them. Come, let us be about it!
I may have taken up new arms, but my role is unchanged. I am a healer, through and through.
Yet in knowing who once wore this sage's mantle, I wonder... When all is said and done, will I look back on the battles I chose to fight with pride?
First this armor, blessed with Ratatoskr's power, and now Vrtra's scale... Much has changed for dragons to show me such favor.
And with Nidhogg with me, in spirit and in hand, no obstacle will bar our way.
My warding scale is safely tucked away. I'm ready when you are, Forename.
I may not be the Azure Dragoon, former or otherwise, but I guarantee that I'll give as good as I get!
A foul place, this. Let us proceed with caution.
They seek to bar our path. The only way is through!
Oh gods, poor Nidhana!We'll free you from this place, I promise!
I sense a great surge of aether, as if...A summoning hath begun!
Look! Those beastly masks!It's the Manusya, come to life!
This is where our ways do part. We shall survey the halls below.
We will focus on sustaining the Arkasodara!
The rest of you must keep going! Onwards and upwards!
This is an abomination.A perversion of people's faith!
