Aye. Our pride is crushed, and our souls corrupted. The winds are stilled, and the heavens offer no comfort.
There is nothing left for our kind. Our long lives a curse as we await the end. Still as stone we shall become...
So you say, yet your kind has found a new beginning on our star.
One of you braved the expanse, bearing with him a clutch of eggs. They and their children now rule our skies, their song heard by all.
Our kin...on another star?
And yet...upon thee do I smell the blood of my brethren.
Were they drawn into discord and war on their new home?
They were. They suffered much, and repaid their suffering in kind.
It mattereth not whither we fly.
Ever will a sanguine ocean await us. Ever will retribution's wheel turn.
And so, on the last of my pride as a dragon, I break free of this wheel.
I renounce conflict! Exile myself from the other, never again to be touched by the flames of hatred!
Had your brethren made the selfsame choice, my family might still be alive.
Yet lasting peace does not come to those who simply retreat from conflict.
No, you must be willing to confront it. To stare into the face of your foe...and see yourself in him.
Only then can you break the cycle of torment and tragedy. This lesson, a dear friend taught me at the risk of his life.
There is no nobility in your “penance.” You wallow in self-pity.
And after everything we've endured, we will not let you stop us!
Estinien!
Stay back!
We tire of war... We tire of turmoil...
Dignity tarnished, crimson stained...
Our misery, our shame... Too much to bear...
Release us, from war... From life...
I see... Theirs is the emotion that bars our way.
The rest is up to you.
No... Not Estinien too...
There's a wind...
He's opened the way for us...
Sacrificed himself to remake this place, like Thancred did...
Oh, Alphinaud...
Come...let us follow the wind. It will not lead us astray. He would not.
If I had known this place would claim Estinien too, I...
No... No, it's what had to be done.
Must this always be the price paid for safe passage?
The wind has stayed the fog that covered this island. And the air... It no longer feels quite so stifling.
As by the beating of mighty wings doth wind blow, where dragons may ne'er again touch the sky, he and the shade he bore shall soar free...
Look there! The wind...
This is Estinien's doing. I'm sure of it. We should ride its flow, and see where it leads.
Forgive me, Forename, but could you go on ahead? I... I need a moment. To gather my thoughts...
Forgive me, Forename, but could you go on ahead? I... I need a moment. To gather my thoughts...
He...he did it. He found a way forward for us.
The dragons remain trapped within a prison of their own making, lamenting the horrors of war. Yet Estinien knew them better than most.
He was a man of honor and a dear friend, willing to fight to the very end for what he believed was right...
And he's still fighting, Alphinaud. Just like Thancred.
Their sacrifices are why we can survive here. Why we still have a chance to stop her.
Even in spirit, they're unwilling to give in to despair, and we mustn't either.
Alisaie is right. We must press on. For their sake...
To feign bravery with bold words is a simple matter, but without the strength of will to match, we are powerless against dynamis.
Naught less than unshakable conviction will suffice... Which makes me question if I am up to the task.
No choice have we but to march onward, lest we squander their noble sacrifices...
Though it pains me to say it, we can ill afford to stop and grieve our comrades' passing. No, there will be time enough after.
We have to keep going. Even if Estinien isn't here to see it, I'm sure Alphinaud wouldn't want to disappoint him.
As Y'shtola and Alisaie said, we must continue.
Hmm. Notice the change in our surroundings? Perhaps this is the memory of an altogether different world.
'Twould be prudent to learn more of it, then. Tread carefully, lest we lose our footing in this sand.
Sand... Sand everywhere. <sigh>
Another seemingly barren world... For a mercy, the air is nowhere near as stale, but still quite dry, and the sand will no doubt prove bothersome in due time.
If you were worried about my vision, you needn't be. I can still see quite well.
If not for the light emitted by these glyphs, I might well have overlooked this monolith.
Were it not for the violet crystal embedded in its surface, 'twould appear as ordinary stone.
A curious script hath been etched upon them. Alas, it is not a language with which I am familiar.
I cannot say I recognize it either.
Nor I. The dragons, from what I recall, preserve their knowledge in song and eschew the written word entirely, so we may assume this is the work of another race. One we have yet to encounter...
Meteion claimed the dragons' world suffered a slow death, seeking the release of oblivion.
What life we find here, like as not, doth wend its way towards a similar end.
Fascinating as this script is, we will glean naught from what we cannot decipher...
What do you suppose that is over there?
I'm not sure... It's hard to make out at this distance, but its surface seems to bear the same crystals as this monument.
Meaning there's a chance we may find whoever built them both. We should go and have a look. Come on.
