Rhalgr preserve!
It can't be...
The palace! After them!
You're here. Good.
Well, well, well, to be received by such an illustrious cast! Why, even the hero of the piece is here! I feel quite starstruck!
Is that...Asahi!?
His body, more like. You don't fool us!
You saw straight through it... Anyone would think you'd dealt with Ascians before!
Permit me to introduce myself. I am Fandaniel, and may I say what a pleasure it is to finally make your acquaintance.
My, straight to business, is it? Suit yourself...
It is my intention to recreate the Final Days, to which end I have distributed a collection of rather ingenious devices─or “towers”─which will, in time, give rise to the grandest of spectacles!
The Final Days...? But it was the Ascians who labored to prevent them!
You're quite right! Though I would expect no less from one responsible for eliminating my unsundered colleagues.
Honestly, the three of them were obsessed with restoring the one true world. As a sovereign individual, however, I never had much interest in such things. I mean, why bother when you're just another sundered minion?
Admittedly, Elidibus was not convinced by that argument. But thanks to you, I'm finally free of his incessant nagging!
Free to use my powers as I see fit! To fulfill my heart's desire!
And my heart's desire is to lay this half-broken world to waste, leaving nary a fleck of dust behind!
What!? Why would you want such a thing!?
Because I want wretched creatures who ask such meaningless questions to die!
You!
And you!
And you!
I want you all to die!
And I want to die too! Oh yes, I want to die and take everyone with me in a paroxysm of pain and suffering!
I'm different, you see. From the ancients who clung to dear life. And from you.
So don't bother trying to reason with me. You will find I have no reason. Or creed. Or any such tripe.
I just want to destroy the world. But please do resist with all your might. It will add to my enjoyment.
Now then, ladies and gentlemen! Keep your eyes peeled, for the curtains have risen on the spectacle to end all spectacles!
We, the Telophoroi, shall be your performers, and this very star our stage!
Ah, but I nearly forgot! I have a message for you. Ahem! My esteemed patron, Lord Zenos, eagerly awaits you at the heart of the chaos.
While I wish only to destroy the world, he exists solely to relive a certain...transcendent moment with you, and it is for that reason he would reduce all to ash.
Pray see to it his dreams do not go unfulfilled. For if you should disappoint him...
My trusty companion here─whom I've dubbed “Lunar Bahamut”─will burn your cities and everyone in them.
Everyone out. My men will tend to the blaze.
Thank goodness everyone's safe... We've managed to put out the fire, though not quickly enough to save the garden.
Raubahn─can I leave it to you to send word to the Alliance?
I'm going to take a unit and investigate the tower. We need to find out what it's for.
We'll go with you.
No you won't. You'll rest. From what Merlwyb tells me, you're due some time off duty.
Should we learn anything about the tower, we'll be sure to share it with you. Until then, I want you to rest.
...Very well. But if you need our help, don't hesitate. And take care. Both of you.
Ah, you're back too. Good. We've received the reports from the Alliance.
Since we are all here, perhaps those who bore witness to the events in Ala Mhigo could treat the rest of us to a firsthand account?
No sooner do we overcome one problem than another appears. It would all seem tediously predictable but for the endless variety of our foes. This Fandaniel sounds even more unhinged than his patron.
Unhinged, perhaps, but no fool. For all his pantomime theatrics, he gave away little about his plot. We know only that he intends to recreate the Final Days, and that the towers will somehow facilitate this.
He also called his dragon “Lunar Bahamut.” Let's not forget that little detail.
And the creature did resemble the descriptions I've seen of the elder primal.
That may be...but the fact that it answered to Fandaniel would suggest they are not one and the same entity. I think it more probable that it is some manner of simulacrum born of Ascian magicks.
Whatever it is, for now we can but work closely with the Alliance and remain vigilant.
I believe that concludes our news. What of yours, Y'shtola?
I have been to see the sultana. Knowing how quick the Immortal Flames are to dispose of their tempered, I judged it best to provide them with the cure first.
As soon as I had sufficiently recovered, I traveled to Ul'dah and delivered the porxies to Her Grace, along with detailed instructions on their use.
Yet my visit chanced to coincide with the arrival of some troubling tidings. The Immortal Flames had been on the cusp of agreeing to a truce with the Amalj'aa when negotiations abruptly collapsed.
The Amalj'aa claim that a number of their kind have been abducted...and that men are responsible.
Naught is known of the perpetrators as yet. But as the Immortal Flames went about investigating the abductions, they came upon one of Fandaniel's towers.
On the subject of the towers, you may be interested to learn that they are not an exclusively Eorzean phenomenon. According to the Alliance, they have been sighted as far afield as Yanxia.
Then it would seem reasonable to assume that they are everywhere. We simply have not found them.
Well, as you said yourself, we can do little for now save remain vigilant. And since we are dealing with a dragon─ostensibly, at least─I believe it would behoove us to enlist the aid of an authority on such foes.
Estinien!
Estinien? Now just a moment... If he could be persuaded to lend us his lance, I would be the first to welcome it, but the truth is, we will struggle even to find him.
Hehe! You let me and Krile worry about that. We'll sniff him out, no matter where he's hiding!
If indeed he is hiding. We have ways of locating him, regardless. So if there are no objections, we shall depart at once.
Well, rather than sitting around, I think I might go to each of the city-states and educate them in the use of the porxies.
They would doubtless appreciate it. But might you consider taking a moment to rest before leaving? You would be fresher for the tasks ahead.
Well, my friend...our moment of triumph did not last long.
And save it we shall. I for one do not intend to allow a nihilistic madman to take us all to the grave with him. Not when the future holds such promise.
Nay, I will do all in my power to protect those whom I hold dear. Just as you have always done.
Come now, I didn't say that. While it may not be the most carefree experience, there is nothing in this world I would rather do than write a new future with you.
A long future, mind, whatever the Telophoroi might hope. We'll stop them, won't we. Together.
Then why not have one now? If anything happens, I promise I will come and wake you.
As much as I enjoy our adventures together, I am conscious of the toll they take. So let us gather our strength while we can, that we might rise to the challenges of the unwritten future.
As much as I enjoy our adventures together, I am conscious of the toll they take. So let us gather our strength while we can, that we might rise to the challenges of the unwritten future.
The scouts should've been back by now. I'm going to go and find them.
Oh, thank goodness for that!
