Thank the Ilsabard contingent, more like. Word is they fought their way into Garlemald and toppled the bloody thing themselves. Not just the one, neither─all the towers have up and vanished.
Aye, I heard the same. Commander Aldynn and his troops helped keep casualties to a minimum, too.
But is it true they brought back tempered Garlean soldiers?
As Commander Aldynn tells it, they've a treatment for that now. But don't you worry─cured or not, they've no plans to bring them into the city proper.
I see. Well, that's a relief, then.
I know we've brothers and sisters among the lot, but I can't say I'm eager to welcome them home...
Won't need to think about it for a while yet. They're to be looked after in Ala Gannha for the time being...
Won't need to think about it for a while yet. They're to be looked after in Ala Gannha for the time being...
Another day, another commission of paramount importance...
Well, what have we here...?
Hm?
Hey! Are you all right?
Was that...? No. The shadows play tricks. Nothing more.
The towers are gone, and the Garlean threat has abated. And yet...
Why does it feel as though it's about to get much, much worse...?
Oh, Forename! I was just about to call for you.
I'm afraid we've received another call for assistance. This one comes from Radz-at-Han...
The others have assembled in the main hall to discuss the situation. You must join them at once!
I heard all about the Final Days from Krile, but I had no idea we'd feel the impact of it this soon...
Ah, there you are.
Our worst fears have come to pass. But moments ago, we received grim tidings from our contact in Radz-at-Han.
Vile beasts have appeared as if out of nowhere, claiming one victim after the next. What's more, they say the very sky burns above them...
Good gods... Are the Final Days already upon us?
It would appear so. Sadly, that is all the information we have at present. No doubt the people of Radz-at-Han are busy fighting for their lives...
Then we must go at once! They need our help!
Agreed. Krile, you'd best remain here with Tataru and gather what knowledge you can. You are in no condition for a long journey, I imagine.
...Very well. Similar phenomena may have been observed elsewhere, and if so, we must know about it at once.
Be safe out there, yes?
Let us make first for Yedlihmad. We must prepare ourselves for what may lie ahead.
I would rather accompany you to Thavnair...but Raha's concerns are well founded. The last thing I would want is to be a burden.
And so I will remain here with Tataru, and do all I can to gather knowledge that might serve us in the battle to come. Godsspeed in your journey, Forename.
I'm glad for Krile's support. I'll also call upon Hoary Boulder and the others to assist us. They will be our eyes and ears in the field, as they have been many times before.
We do not wield the creation magicks that the ancients did, yet still these abominations appear. Whatever could be the cause?
With the fall of the tower in Thavnair, the Hannish were beginning to enjoy a semblance of peace. And now this.
In ancient times, the phenomenon was first observed in places where the celestial currents had grown weakest. 'Twould seem there is a stagnancy of aether in the skies above Radz-at-Han unbeknownst even to Vrtra.
If the might of Vrtra is not enough to hold these fiends at bay, Radz-at-Han is in dire straits indeed. We must go at once.
No similar creatures have been sighted here in Sharlayan. That said, the early signs may manifest in other regions ere long. We must be prepared for every eventuality.
If this calamity has indeed come to Thavnair, it is all too likely that Corvos across the strait finds itself in a similar predicament.
Even now, it remains an imperial province, and as such, it may be some time until we can ascertain the situation there. We can only hope that Krile and Tataru will be able to provide us with some insight sooner rather than later.
And lo, vile beasts did rise...
Leaving naught in their wake but blood and ash.
Sun scorches earth and boils seas...
And our sins ascend unto the heavens—
Three dooms to unmake all we were.
The sky burns. The Final Days...are truly upon us.
...My friends. I trust you have heard the news.
We have. What can you tell us of the situation, Your Excellency?
Last night, the isle was rocked by tremors, and the earth itself cried out.
Aloft, the heavens began to burn. From all about, unholy beasts─the likes of which we had never seen─came forth in fury and rage.
...No. To say they “came forth” would be...inexact.
The people of Radz-at-Han themselves transformed into these baleful fiends.
Though the phenomenon was observed throughout our lands, the first creature─the largest and most dreadful of the lot─wrought havoc upon us here, in our fair city.
Though they bear superficial resemblance to divinities of legend, they are ungodly abominations. The people decry them as “blasphemies.”
The large one's rampage has since taken it to the northern reaches of the island. I mean to dispatch our Radiant Host in an attempt to quell the threat.
And what of Vrtra?
Vrtra, too, makes for the north of his own accord. And yet...
He knows the blasphemy and its minions were but yesterday his beloved people.
I pray his boundless compassion and mercy does not deter him from taking unenviable but necessary action.
...Understood. I ask that you allow us to aid you in quelling this threat.
You would risk your lives to help us yet again? I have no words to express my gratitude.
Our regiments approach the north from several directions, with a number of units set to depart from the docks of Yedlihmad.
They will make landfall in an area of dense jungle, where one can expect to encounter dangers even beyond the fell beasts we hunt.
I leave you to your preparation. You will find me at the docks when you are ready to depart.
We're as prepared as we'll ever be. Let's go.
So the beasts are not born of creation magicks run amok, but are rather the altered forms of the people themselves. In that sense, this manifestation of the Final Days differs from that which we witnessed in Amaurot.
...And for the worse, I daresay. If any man, woman, or child could become a beast at any moment, there is no telling whence the next threat might come. We must exercise extreme caution.
Don't worry. No matter how grim things might get, I won't lose heart. I'm ready whenever you need me.
If it's true that the people themselves have transformed into beasts, why, even the Radiant Host could suffer the same fate. Or us, perish the thought...
Innocent souls twisted and reformed into unholy abominations. I thought I had seen the last of such nightmares with the sin eaters...
We must act quickly, Forename! Every moment we tarry means another soul may be lost to this nightmare.
I shall survey the environs closely as we go about our search. There may be some clue as to how we can combat this phenomenon.
Usually the most dangerous foe in a wyrm's domain is the wyrm themselves. If I were Vrtra, I would be as offended as I am horrified.
Everyone has assembled, yes? I thank you for lending us your aid in our battle against the blasphemy. Let us review our plan of attack.
I would have you board this boat and circle around to the north side of the island.
There you will find a dense jungle we call Vanaspati.
It is a sacred wood, home to many temples and a number of villages.
Vrtra and the Radiant Host have gone there ahead of us.
I ask that you join them, and do all in your power to destroy this blasphemy.
I pray we are not too late to spare the settlements within Vanaspati the fate that has befallen our city.
Once we meet with Vrtra and the Radiant Host, they should be able to tell us more of the present situation.
