Filthy tinhead-lovers...
Father, what did that man call us?
The little tinhead-lover doesn't know what she is, eh? A traitor, sweetheart. A backstabbing bitch who'd gladly betray her kith and kin to gnaw on what few scraps the imperials deign to toss her. Like your bastard father and whore mother!
That's not true! My parents are good people! They've never done anything like that!
Oh but they were quick to help themselves and their bitch spawn, weren't they? You're just as guilty as them!
Fordola!
Traitors!
Please! You have to do something! My husband and daughter are in danger!
Soldiers of the imperial army are under no obligation to intervene in the disputes of Aan.
We're citizens! We have rights!
Father, I'm scared!
It's all right, it's all right. They don't understand. But they'll see in time. They'll see that this is the only way to survive.
Traitors!
Traitors!
Let the savages have their fun. They'll be more compliant once they've tired themselves out.
Fordola, please! You already have citizenship! Why would you want to become a soldier!?
Oh gods, what have you done to your face!?
Forgotten it already, have you? I'm honoring Father's memory.
By telling the world that you're no better than a common savage!?
Am I, though, Mother? Are any of us?
Can't you see? Citizenship means nothing to them. If you're not a pureblood Garlean, you're no different from any other savage.
So I'll play the part. I'll join the legion and I'll make them respect me. And when the mob see that, they'll think twice before throwing their stones.
Ansfrid, Hrudolf, Emelin. It's time!
It'll be hard. Humiliating. They'll try to break us─send us crawling back to our “own kind.” But we won't, no matter what. We'll bleed for them─die for them if we have to. We'll do whatever it takes to be free!
So, you mean to play the part one last time, eh? The unrepentant traitor, whose death will serve to unite the people?
Shut up!
You had every chance to kill yourself. Fashion a noose from your clothes, wait for the guards to leave you alone long enough to slip it over your neck─
I said shut up!
But then it would all have been for nothing, wouldn't it? Whatever it takes. That's what you said.
...Been in my head, have you? Had a little peek at my past?
And what, a few stolen memories tell you everything you need to know, do they?
Don't you dare patronize me! You don't know a godsdamned thing about the life I've led!
The bastards that killed him, the bastards that let it happen─my father deserved better! I swore I'd do whatever it took to make them pay!
You...y-you... All that power...all that pain... It's too much... Too much for anyone!
The things they've done to you. The lies, the betrayal, the endless fighting...yet there you stand, unbroken. How...? Why...?
Damn you... Damn you all...
You still have time, Fordola. Think about how you want to spend it.
Let's go.
I don't know that we solved anything exactly, but we've given Fordola something to think about at least.
Aye... And I've found something new to think about too.
I don't know about you, Forename, but the visions only come to me every now and then. From the way Fordola kept wincing, though, I get the feeling she's having them almost all the time. That's a lot of bad memories to deal with...
Hmmm... I wonder... Could there be some fundamental difference between one who is born with the Echo and one who has been artificially imbued with it?
Well, the Immortal Flames have been scouring that research facility ever since the liberation. There's a chance they might have some answers for us.
General Aldynn's there overseeing the investigation. Let's go and pay him a visit, shall we?
