From Abby? Hm, there's a message attached to it...
'Tis well and good to do your duty, but you mustn't forget who you're fighting for. After all, you're about to have an extra mouth to feed.
My Abby...is with child? Oh, Halone be praised! I'm to be a father! From this moment on, I must live not only for duty, but for my family!
Rushing out of the city, joining the battle against fiends... It was all for the sake of delivering the present and message?
Aye, something like that. At the tavern, I heard tell of a knight who's versed in traditional songs. I went to his sweetheart to ask about him, but the poor lass was damn near inconsolable. The way she was pining for her dearest Alamenain, what was I to do but go and find the bloke?
Not only did you bring me the gladdest tidings of my life, in coming to our aid, you most certainly saved it besides. I can never repay this debt, but it shall not be for want of effort. Whatever it is you wish to know, I should be glad to assist you.
We are searching for a legendary song said to hold the power to bring battles to an end. The Ballad of Oblivion, it is called. Are you perchance familiar with it?
I have heard rumors of a woman who sends souls unto the heavens with a song. Perhaps this is the song you seek? I shall look into it and send word should I learn something.
Guydelot! Just because this ended well doesn't mean you're excused! You can't simply do whatever you please!
...Whatever I please? I was adapting to the situation─that happens to be sought after in a bard. An opportunity presented itself, and I grabbed it with both hands.
Insufferable man... Brazen though it was, his action did save lives, so I shall overlook his lapse in judgment this once. Let us return to Falcon's Nest.
Lest you forget, we are a fellowship! Members of a fellowship work together! Do we have an understanding?
Fight not the flow of life's river,♪For you'll never arrive at the shoals.♪Give your body and soul to the waters,♪And Sanson the Stiff has no soul.♪
Stop that! I am trying to have a serious conversation!
You know nothing, Sanson the Stiff. A bard must compose when inspiration takes him. I was trying to capture the virtue of tranquility, and you rudely interrupted me.
What about you, my friend? Have recent happenings kindled a verse within your heart?
You see? Forename, too, was moved to compose a lovely little ditty!
Yes, yes, that was very beautiful...but I was talking about what it means to be a fellowship! We have much work to do, and I expect you to do your part, starting with our inquiries!
I'm inquiring, aren't I? As I've already proven, there's plenty to be learned from the commonfolk. I'll leave you to deal with your own kind─the stuffy, highborn sort.
We haven't yet heard from Ser Alamenain. Until such time as we do, I shall continue my own search for information. As before, pray keep up your strength for the journey ahead.
Good tidings, Forename! We've received information from Ser Alamenain regarding the Ballad of Oblivion!
You will recall the woman he mentioned─the one who sends souls unto the heavens with a song. She is apparently a soldier stationed at the Convictory. Let us go there at once!
Guydelot, you are coming with us!
We have found the soldier, Forename─Celaine is her name. Alas, though she admits to singing the song, she refuses to teach it to us.
Guydelot is doing his best to coax it out of her. For once, his way with women may serve an honorable cause.
You won't sing for us; I don't have a problem with that. But could you at least tell us why? It'd help to ease our disappointment.
