Oh, didn't see you there. Can we help you?
Greetings. I am the royal seneschal, in charge of making Little Ladies' Day most memorable for all ladies of the realm. Mistress Aliapoh has informed us that you have quite the show prepared for us.
Ah, we've been waitin' for you! You'll be hard-pressed to pick your jaw up off the floor after you see what my Peatie has in store for you.
I've been watchin' over her ever since the day I found her wanderin' the wilderness all by her lonesome. We spent ages lookin' for her family, but now I s'pose we're all each other has.
Peatie? A lovely name, to be sure. And those flowers, are they peach blossoms? I daresay she is the very picture of a Little Ladies' Day princess!
Haha, I'm glad to hear that, and I know Peatie is, too. She's thought of little else since the moment Miss Aliapoh came to us with her peculiar request.
There's nothin' in this world we love more than hearin' an audience cheer, and I think this time we'll earn that and then some. We call this one “egg surprise.” Go on, Peatie!
That was...astounding!
Impressive, ain't it? And all it took was a few glamour prisms. 'Course, that wasn't where the genius was required.
It took us days and nights of rackin' our brains to figure out how to capture the spirit of two celebrations. In the end, though, I think we did about as good a job as could've been expected.
Now here comes the rub. Ever since we arrived in Gridania, Peatie's been a little on edge. Hate to see her like this, but I think I've figured out what's causin' it.
As you just saw, she's got no problem performin' in front of an audience of two. But when a whole gaggle of revelers showed up not too long ago, she just froze up.
I see... She must not be used to such large crowds.
Luckily, I managed to save the show by climbin' atop her head. That set her mind at ease and helped her find her courage.
But I ain't as young as I used to be, and my knees are already cryin' out in protest at the prospect of climbin' her again.
But you, on the other hand...I reckon you've got plenty of malms left in those adventurer's legs of yours. Might I trouble you to join our merry troupe and support Peatie durin' her star turn?
All you have to do is climb atop her and head toward the crowds. Show them our act, and tell the spectators to come to me for an egg of their own. Still plenty to go around.
If Peatie's act is a hit in Gridania, it would do much to allay the concerns of my Ul'dahn compatriots. Best of luck, Forename!
