I hope that'll suffice!
I never thought we'd end up fighting Hydaelyn Herself...
'Twould appear we have proven equal to the challenge.
All in a day's work...
A battle that would go down in history...were there anyone but us to tell the tale.
I trust you're still in one piece?
No! This can't be happening!
Though my power is in constant flux, I have always kept a reserve for this very moment.
It was a true test of your prowess. You have done well.
There is one thing I must ask.
By sundering the world into fourteen shards, the aether of all living beings too was divided. This reduction would in theory allow us to more easily interact with dynamis.
Having seen mankind brought to the very precipice of extinction, you wished for us to develop a means to overcome despair.
You believed we had the potential, and sundered all creation to see it fulfilled. To deliver us to that swirling maelstrom of dynamis in which our foe hides, and grant us the power to defeat her once and for all. Is this not true?
It is as thou sayest. 'Twas the trial to which I subjected mankind, and it hath led to untold bloodshed and suffering. There was no kindness nor justice in the tragedy I wrought.
When confronted with the almighty Zodiark, my only recourse was to rend Him and the world asunder, that His power be diminished for a time.
And so it came to pass. Now you, my chosen, have surpassed my expectations. Surpassed me.
I entrust the fate of the universe...unto you.
This crystal contains the memory of Meteion's passage through the stars.
Deliver it unto the Loporrits. They will guide you to her.
Though they may be capable of crossing great distances, there is a vast difference between traveling to the moon and the furthermost reaches of the great expanse.
And unlike Meteion, we cannot simply soar on waves of dynamis to our destination.
Indeed. To make such a journey would require an astronomical amount of aether.
But a solution lieth close at hand.
Of course!
Yes, my child.
Ever since I became the will of the star, the aether drawn here hath slowly crystallized.
They who have answered my call know it well.
While I have remained hidden, it hath become the embodiment of the planet's will in my place. A faceless, omnipotent force of nature.
The Mothercrystal...our final hope.
Alas, I can do no more. The fulfillment of this task doth fall to you, my chosen.
Now, heed these words.
Darkness and Light. Despair and hope. As goeth one, so goeth the other. Become Light. Become hope.
I have a gift for thee... Come closer.
Long have I searched for a means to safeguard the future of this star.
Though I knew failure after failure, by recalling thy tales─and my promise to thee─I found the strength to carry on.
Though the world is ever changing, thy thirst for adventure hath never waned.
Thine unshakable resolve never ceaseth to amaze. To inspire.
As a mark of my gratitude, I bestow this final gift.
Thou dost possess the crystal of Azem, yes?
As Hydaelyn, I preside over the forces of stasis, tranquility, peace. The laws which impart stability to existence itself.
I will weave this selfsame power into the crystal, granting thee mastery over matter, to give form to the formless. Use it wisely, for it will not last indefinitely.
As thou hast seen on thy journey through the aetherial sea, souls are drawn to thee. Mayhap this trait will prove to be a boon rather than a hindrance...
It is thy hopes and prayers that enable Azem's invocations and give them life, so keep them close. But pray, remember this...
When the way forward is hidden even from the mind's eye, look not to the invocation, but within yourself.
These were the words of the crystal's original bearer.
With that...my work is finished.
Fulfill our promise. Right the wrongs committed when the world was yet whole. Silence the song of oblivion...
Teach her a brighter melody. Show her...our journey is far from over.
It is I who should thank thee. For all thou hast done...and may yet accomplish.
Of this, I have no doubt. For yours is a light brilliant beyond measure.
Long after I have gone, though not even my soul remaineth...
My love will be with you forever, my dearest children.
Thank goodness! I never would have forgiven myself had any of you come to harm.
I will keep Hydaelyn's words in my heart─as talisman and lodestone both.
If dynamis is ruled by emotion, perhaps prayer has more tangible results than I suspected─albeit ones that are not always obvious to us.
In which case, we may hope that Hydaelyn's wishes continue to move the hearts of men as they set forth time and time again.
Far be it from me to refute Hydaelyn's own words... Yet even if Her actions were neither kind nor just, we can yet give them a nobler meaning.
We can make Her faith the salvation of mankind.
She and Hydaelyn were two of a kind, weren't they?
Full of love for the star and its people. Always holding to hope for our future...
She has given us all She can.
We must share what we know with Father and the Loporrits at once, that it not go to waste.
A bit small for a welcoming party, but I've never been one for crowds.
'Tis fortunate that Fourchenault hath kept Livingway apprised of our progress. We require the Loporrits' aid more than ever.
Forename! Did you meet Hydaelyn? Pray tell─how is She?
I am glad to see you well. Though we could roughly place your souls, deep as you went, we could neither see nor hear you...
The fluctuations in your aether near the end gave me quite a fright! What in the world happened?
You mean to say Hydaelyn is...is...
No, there's no time to feel our feelings! We must carry out Hydaelyn's will without delay.
We'll find Meteion if it's the last thing we do!
...If you wouldn't mind handing over the crystal, that is. The fancy navigatory one.
To the edge of the universe, where congregates the despair of countless stars... You are determined to see this through?
We are. Should words fail us, we will fight...to the bitter end.
I know that it pains you to accept this. Would that I need ask nothing more of you...
Yet we have only two means to travel the great expanse─the moon, and Sharlayan's ark. I am all too aware that without both of them, there will be no exodus...but I nevertheless beg you to honor the agreement we made.
The Forum's decision will be honored. You have earned the right to use the ship as you see fit, and I could not rescind it even if I wanted to.
As it happens, I do not, and would do all within my power to aid your cause.
With that settled, might I suggest you rest a while?
Proving oneself to Hydaelyn is never easy...and despite our unparalleled genius, we'll need a day to make the necessary calculations. You may as well take advantage of it!
You can chart a course through the sea of stars in a single day!? Ye gods...
Shall we head above ground for some fresh air, then? And perhaps a nap...
Aha! I've been expecting you.
I heard about your foray into the aetherial sea. The Students have ventured far and wide, but never quite so deep as that!
Are you experiencing any aftereffects from your prolonged exposure? Nausea? Dizziness? Hauntings? Hmm...
Well, have a pleasant sleep! And if you do experience any unusual phenomena, please let me know. I shall add it to our records!
There you are...
Some time indeed, yes... For you, at least.
Believe me, I'd meant to get some proper sleep, but here we are, drifting along instead.
Well, well. You too? And so we remain to watch and wonder...
Yes, indeed...
To begin, we first must see the end.
A great many of the helping hands that delivered the adamantite are still here in Sharlayan, and I for one couldn't be happier!
Between the aetherburner to be refurbished, supplies to be transported, and meals to be prepared, we need all the assistance we can get.
Even Lord Emmanellain has been doing his part, albeit at a snail's pace. Still, it's the thought that counts...but a bit more effort wouldn't go amiss.
Forename. I trust you've had a good rest?
An envoy of Master Fourchenault's arrived not along ago with a message: the Loporrits have determined Meteion's location.
We've been asked to gather at the Rostra. I'll meet you there, along with the others.
What took you so long? We have much to discuss and scant time to do it.
How did you sleep? Well, I should hope. It's likely the last opportunity we will have to take a proper rest for quite some time.
I...probably could have done with a few more winks myself. Ugh...
The thought of what's to come was keeping me awake, you see. So, I thought to do a bit of research, hoping I might eventually feel weary enough to doze off.
But before I realized it, it was already morning... No need to scold me─I already regret it, and will probably only feel that regret more keenly as the day wears on.
I fear our recent travails within Labyrinthos and the aetherial sea have taken their toll on my mind, for last night I received a visitor in my dreams. Moenbryda...
A vision not of the woman she was, nay, but the woman she would have become...
Not feeling any ill effects from the Aitiascope, are you? After playing test subject for those new aetherytes, even the mention of aether sickness makes me feel a little queasy.
Hydaelyn─the heart of this star─is gone... And yet, on the morrow, the sun will rise, and life will go on.
When I look upon Sharlayan and its idyllic surrounds, there are moments when Her absence feels unreal. As do the Final Days. Would that it were so...
Before coming, I thought to inquire after our comrades abroad. It seems that the effects of the Final Days have been observed further and further north of Garlemald.
For a blessing, those regions are largely uninhabited...but in any event, we mustn't misinterpret this as a geographical spread. There is no telling where in the world the phenomenon will strike next, unfortunately.
Gods, I can hardly believe the Loporrits managed to find Meteion out there, hidden among the stars. The sheer distances involved are mind-boggling.
Since the Final Days first manifested, we've been tested as never before. Even more so in your case.
Nevertheless, our work is far from over. We cannot afford to falter now, not when the end is in sight.
While the Forum is not here in its entirety to brood and glare at us, Master Barnier's presence alone is enough to put me on edge.
If you would know the reason for this assembly, you had better ask Master Leveilleur.
Everyone appears to be present and accounted for. Good.
As you know, the Loporrits have deduced the whereabouts of Meteion by means of a crystal bequeathed to us by Hydaelyn Herself.
Your quarry's location is a place far beyond the moon, in the farthest reaches of the sea of stars, at the edge of creation.
A veritable Ultima Thule.
Indeed... How then are we to reach it?
An excellent question! Luckily for you, I have an equally excellent answer.
In theory, with its advanced propulsion systems, the moon is capable of delivering you to Ultima Thule, but the myriad other facilities housed within would greatly impede travel through the sea of stars.
Even the Mothercrystal may not possess aether enough to bear so massive a vessel to our destination and back.
However, if we integrate our hyperhopper into your aetherburner...
We should be able to fire things up and jump our way to the end of the universe in no time!
Father, does this mean...?
Bear in mind this decision was not made solely at my discretion, but with the consent of the Forum.
Hearing the Loporrit's proposal, the Forum was faced with a grave decision.
To commit the ark to this endeavor would mean abandoning both our plans to evacuate to the moon, and to resettle on another star. Needless to say, the proposition invited fierce debate.
In the end, however, the Forum was swayed by the simple fact that Hydaelyn believed you possessed of the strength needed to overcome this crisis.
The great exodus was, after all, a plan of Hydaelyn's own making. Therefore, if in the eleventh hour She would proffer another means by which we may seek salvation, we would be fools to dismiss it out of hand.
Indeed, She sacrificed everything─Her very existence─to avert the destruction of this star.
That is why we have chosen to place our faith in Hydaelyn. In you. The ark will be made ready for your voyage to Ultima Thule.
What of all the people that have labored so tirelessly to prepare for the evacuation? They must be furious.
I would not be so sure. They have not forgotten your deeds on the Magna Glacies.
Nor did your instrumental role in orchestrating the delivery of adamantite go unnoticed.
No, the people do not protest─quite the contrary. They have expressed unwavering support for you and your mission.
Are the Loporrits too willing to abandon the exodus?
Were you not listening when we said we were born of Hydaelyn's love for Etheirys and its people?
If it means your survival, we would do anything to help.
And you'll most certainly have need of our expertise where you're going. There's no guarantee Ultima Thule is a place that supports life, an otherwise vexing problem our know-how can remedy.
Besides, Hydaelyn chose us to lead the way to Meteion. Why else would She give you a crystal only we can decipher?
But more importantly, we were perfectly content to evacuate Etheirys until you brought us here, Urianger. And now we're enamored with the place, so what choice do we have but to save it?
Of course, none of this is possible without you and the Scions, so I must ask─are you certain you wish to do this?
Very well. We shall inform the Forum of your decision, and begin preparations to bolster the ark with the, ah...“hyperhopper.”
The Loporrits will coordinate with the Ilsabard contingent to have the necessary components transported via the Tower of Babil.
Of course, it will take time until the work is complete.
For now, pray take your ease.
'Twould seem there is naught to do but rest and prepare. Shall we?
As you can imagine, not all Forum members were willing to endorse this plan.
Through no fault of yours, of course. Given what is at stake, it is only natural that opinions are divided.
That said, the final decision was reached with an overwhelming majority, much to my surprise.
There is much to be done before the ark can be made ready for your voyage.
Would that I could be afforded time to speak with Alphinaud and Alisaie. Alas...
I can but pray they find a moment of quiet calm before the journey to come.
No need to worry about lending a hand with the hyperhopper. We already have more than enough help, so go and relax while you still can!
The Forum hath placed the fate of mankind in our hands. We must not betray their faith.
In all honesty, I didn't think the Forum would approve this measure, and certainly not by such a large margin. I daresay, though, that Master Fourchenault's impassioned recounting of your audience with Hydaelyn helped sway the vote.
He has a way with words, after all. Where did you think Alphinaud got it from?
I wasn't expecting to have time on our hands. What should we do...?
A rare opportunity to rest. I say we make the most of it.
They bid us rest, but I'd much rather find something productive to do.
Hm. I suppose now is as good a time as any to hone my lance. Not that I've ever found it to be dull. Still, it eases my mind on the eve of battle.
Hmmm... Perhaps now I can finish that book I was reading...
Wh-What? Oh, pay me no mind. I'm sure you have better things to do with the time afforded us.
I should very much like to speak with the Loporrits once their work is complete.
'Tis plain Hydaelyn has entrusted them with a great deal of knowledge, and I suspect there is more they could teach us.
I wasn't expecting to have time on our hands. What should we do...?
Ere we depart, we must leave nothing undone.
Quite, though it is difficult to conceive of how one can best prepare to brave a domain where dynamis governs all.
Nevertheless, Hydaelyn deemed us worthy of the trials that await.
For lack of any other feasible options at this late stage...let us trust in Her judgment and face Meteion as we are.
Which leaves the not-so-small task of coordinating our efforts here to you and Tataru.
If all goes to plan, we'll be back before you know it.
I certainly hope so.
We will be praying for your safe return. Mayhap it will affect the dynamis for the better.
With that settled, we should get some rest, and make the most of the time we've been afforded.
Hm?
The meeting's over, is it?
You were in there for so long, I started to worry. What did they have to say?
The edge of creation. I see...
Rest assured everything will remain in order until you return─and you will return.
Actually, Forename, could I borrow you for a moment?
Looks like your plans for the interim are decided. When the two of you have finished, meet us back at the Baldesion Annex, all right?
Come with me to the Agora. I have something to show you!
Did someone move the crate? I could have sworn it was here.
Welcome, Forename, to Tataru Taru's Boutique!
I've always done my best to provide the Scions with fashionable attire, but in your case specifically, I make an extra effort to strive for the most functional-yet-stylish clothing one could ask for. Not that I'm playing favorites, but you are the Warrior of Light!
Faced with this unprecedented crisis, I knew you would need an ensemble unlike anything I've created before, and that I wouldn't be able to do it alone.
And so, after enlisting the aid of the world's finest artisans, I finally completed my career-defining masterpiece!
But then inspiration struck, and I saw a golden opportunity just begging to be seized...
With the help of some Thavnairian refugees, I decided to set up shop here in Sharlayan!
Of course, I would never charge you for any of our works. Perish the thought!
Varsarudh. How are things coming along?
Everything is in order, Mistress Tataru. We'll be ready to open shortly.
Which is why I brought you here─to be our very first patron. Would you mind waiting here a moment longer?
If you could wait here just a short while longer, we'll have everything up and running in no time!
Ah, I did not expect to find you here.
I imagine Nidhana would also wish to offer her regards. Alas, after delivering our dragon scales to the engineers, she remained to assist with their work on the aetherburner.
This simulacrum, too, will stay in Sharlayan, while I oversee matters in Radz-at-Han.
It is a rather convenient means to keep abreast of developments pertaining to the Final Days or anything else.
It also allows me, after a fashion, to watch over my people in this distant land.
Varshahn, I was hoping you'd stop by! I can't thank you enough for allowing your artisans to work with me here at the boutique.
Please, it is I who should be thanking you. This establishment has restored a sense of normalcy to their lives. You have blessed them with newfound purpose, and a means by which to support themselves in these troubled times.
What's more, when they at last return home to Radz-at-Han, the experience and knowledge they have gained in your employ will no doubt prove a boon to the artistry and commerce of our land.
In fact, I came here to see how your new employees are settling in, and to express my gratitude for granting them this opportunity.
It's an opportunity for me as well, believe you me! Your artisans have taught me so much about Thavnairian craftsmanship. Their resourcefulness and ingenuity are nothing short of inspiring.
I can't wait to see what kind of wonders we come up with!
I pray you every success in your endeavors, Mistress Tataru.
Before coming here, I heard word of the Forum's decision. Of what will soon be attempted.
It was only then that I finally understood why my father called this star the last bastion of hope.
Indeed, it was the last bastion, for the flame of every other star he encountered had likely been extinguished.
In the boundless dark, the light of brimming life must have been blinding in its splendor...
You journey unto the heavens to protect that light. May the scales of my kin serve you well.
I have faith you will prevail, and restore peace and tranquility to this star.
I will not see his sacrifice squandered, nor shall I rest until Radz-at-Han is returned to its former glory.
And we should be honored to receive you. There is still much of Radz-at-Han you have yet to see.
Perish the thought. You are our salvation and our deliverance. My father would not have relinquished his scales otherwise.
Forgive me, but I must take my leave. Fare you well, and remember─the people of this star have not yet given up hope, and neither must you.
Ugh... Where must I go to get a meal with some flavor in this wasteland of taste...?
Forename, old girl! My, whatever are you doing here?
A new boutique, you say? Hmm... I had been meaning to expand my wardrobe. Yes, something with a little more flair, perhaps, befitting a man of my station.
Though I have nowhere to flaunt said raiments so long as my confinement continues indefinitely. Aye, the young Lord Fortemps insists that, so long as there is work to be done, no matter how trivial, I must abide here in Sharlayan.
Thus do I toil, though every fiber of my being rails against it. Why, I've even suffered the company of that brute Sicard to see supplies transported in a timely fashion.
Yet he was the one granted leave this morning to participate in some supposed “covert operation.”
So I suffer instead for his otherwise welcome absence, now burdened with extra busywork. And without Honoroit here, there is no one to prepare my meals...
I came here in the hopes of finding a nice café, perhaps. Alas, the Sharlayan delicacies I've sampled were lacking in every respect...
Archon loaf? It sounds...sophisticated. Like me.
I thank you for the suggestion. With a full belly, I daresay I can endure this purgatory, if only a while longer. Ta-ta, old girl!
The café over on the pier? Their cuisine didn't appear all that appetizing, but...
If you vouch for their cooking, then perhaps I will give it a try. Thank you for the suggestion, and ta-ta for now, old girl!
Well, well, is that Forename and Tataru I spy?
Hancock!? What are you still doing here?
You said you were returning immediately after dropping off your cargo.
Yes, that was my original plan. After all, any expertise required aside from the delivery of goods is well beyond my purview.
But what manner of entrepreneur would squander an opportunity to study the markets of the northern seas? Worry not─I will return straightways to Kugane once I have finished.
Of course you would find a way to turn this crisis to your advantage.
She wounds me, the industrious woman running a new boutique.
I am not blind to the travails of those who fight on the front lines to deliver us from ruin.
Indeed, I have every confidence they will succeed, and I would make myself─and my business─ready for their return.
If you believe in them so devoutly, then why not put your money where your mouth is?
Fair enough, Tataru. Fair enough!
There is naught more I can do to help ready the ark and her heroes for their maiden voyage, but on your return, I shall host a grand celebration in your honor at the Bokairo Inn.
Accommodations are quite costly, given the reputation of said establishment, but the East Aldenard Trading Company would be honored to foot the bill.
A pity. I'm rather fond of the place myself! Nevertheless, I have no doubt we will find another time and cause for celebration soon enough.
Oho! A woman of tart tastes, I see.
Yes, there will be lemoncakes and much, much more—the finest delicacies the world and Lord Lolorito have to offer.
But let us speak more of this upon your return, lest I draw even more of Tataru's ire. Until next we meet.
Ah, Forename. Decided to spend your time at the markets, did you?
T-Tataru!
Biggs! Wedge! I take it work on the ark proceeds apace?
Aye, it does indeed. Collaborating with the greatest minds of Sharlayan and Radz-at-Han has been a rewarding experience. And that's to say nothing of what we've learned from the Loporrits.
The ark is unlike anything we've ever had the pleasure to work on. Even Nero was rendered speechless on more than one occasion.
I can't wait for you to see it!
It's still hard to believe we have the means to send you off into the great expanse, though. To the farthest known reaches of...well...everything!
I never thought I'd live to see such marvels, yet here I am.
More often than not, you and the Scions are the catalyst that sparks the need for these great innovations. To think how much I'd've missed out on had I not been a member of the Ironworks...
An awful lot of work, to be fair. And the privilege of being worked like a cart chocobo... <mumble> <mumble>
Hah, there is that, too!
As busy as we've been, I wish there was more we could do for you, Forename.
But no matter what happens, we have to keep believing. For a brighter future.
When you head back, would you tell the engineers I'll be along shortly with refreshments?
That's very kind of you, Tataru─they'll be glad to hear it. And on that note, Wedge and I should get going. Still a few more supplies to gather before we return.
Terribly sorry for the wait. Right this way, if you please.
Right! I don't believe the two of you have been formally introduced. This is Varsarudh, from Palaka's Stand.
The pleasure is mine. Thanks to Mistress Tataru, I and many of my friends have found gainful employment in this foreign land.
Ah, yes... It was you who helped us at Purusa, and again when crossing the ice fields, was it not?
I doubt we exchanged little more than glances then, but it is kind of you to remember me.
Thanks to Mistress Tataru, I and many of my friends have found gainful employment in this foreign land.
It is only natural to feel fear in the face of calamity. In such times, we must look to one another for strength and succor.
I know not whether we will come to call this place home or return to Thavnair. But we are here today, and are glad to have contributed to the cause.
And contribute they did by helping to make your new garments as durable as possible.
We put our hearts and souls into them, and I have every confidence they'll keep you safe in the battle to come.
Gods... To think how far we've come since our humble beginnings at the Waking Sands.
From the Rising Stones to the Falling Snows─and even a certain insufferable someone's Ruby Bazaar─we were always fortunate to find friends along the way.
Even when you were swept away to the First, G'raha Tia was there to grant you sanctuary.
I'll never forget the relief I felt when you all returned to us. I thought my heart would burst.
Yours has been a long, long journey, and I've been privileged to watch─often with bated breath─as you persevered time and again.
For all the joy we've shared, there's been much sorrow as well. But I've long since learned you can't have one without the other.
Which is why I promise to send you off to the sea of stars with a smile!
And you can be certain I'll be the first one to welcome you back on your return.
Don't forget to pick up your clothes from Varsarudh before you leave. They were expertly tailored just for you.
In addition to your new ensemble, we have raiments and weaponry for every need. So please, feel free to browse our stock.
I realize you've still got lots to do before you depart, so I won't keep you any longer.
I do hope you can find a moment for yourself, and that the others can as well. They said they were returning to the Baldesion Annex, though I doubt they stayed for long.
If you decide to go looking for them, I'd suggest speaking with Krile first. I'm sure they would have told her their plans.
Be sure to stop by the boutique if you find yourself in need of more equipment!
You're back. I take it you received your gift from Tataru?
It was a surprise long in the making, with many, many long hours of fretting to get everything just right. I'm glad to see it realized, and with great success.
If you're looking for the others, though, they've already taken their leave.
Y'shtola, Thancred, and Urianger have gone to the Last Stand for a bite to eat.
Alisaie and G'raha Tia, meanwhile, thought their time would be better spent poring over books at Noumenon.
As for Alphinaud and Estinien, well... They've elected to pay a visit to the Leveilleur estate, though Estinien seemed somewhat reluctant to go.
I'm sure they would all be glad for your company if you've a mind to seek them out.
Should you be feeling peckish, I'd suggest heading to the Last Stand before Y'shtola and the others finish eating. But above all else, it would be foolish to run headlong into battle a fatigued mess, so do remember to get a good night's sleep.
I've a few matters to attend to myself before you and the others depart for Ultima Thule. But rest assured, Tataru and I will keep everything in order while you're all away.
Try as she might, Tataru had no chance of standing between you and a hearty meal. Don't worry, we saved some for you.
Hast thou perchance had opportunity to partake of the rainbow pudding? Owing to its striking flavor and somewhat garish appearance, 'tis quite popular. Indeed, so popular that the Last Stand's stock hath been entirely exhausted.
I should hope, at the very least, Puddingway did sup upon this most delectable of desserts.
Forename! Come to make our trio a quartet, have you?
Please, have a seat, and we'll see about getting you a drink.
Your business with Tataru is finished?
My, what a thoughtful surprise. Whatever would we do without her?
Indeed. And she's right, you know─it hasn't been all doom and gloom.
It feels like a lifetime ago that Master Louisoix gathered us together to form the Circle of Knowing.
Since then, we have experienced much. But rather than feeling wiser, the more I learn, the more I find my knowledge lacking.
Forsooth. As a student, vainly did I believe that I held the secrets of creation in my grasp. Yet that which I had seized was but an insignificant sliver of what awaited in the wider world.
Every encounter, every experience, hath served to open mine eyes, enlightening and humbling me in equal measure. Even from those whom I called enemies have I learned many a valuable lesson.
What will we learn at the edge of the universe, I wonder...
Ultima Thule, where the bringer of the end makes her nest... I for one can't possibly imagine.
But whatever awaits us there, we will survive. We must... For her.
Is aught the matter?
No, it's nothing. I just... Well, lately I find myself surprised at how much I've changed. How much we've all changed.
Gods, it feels like only yesterday that we went on that mission to Drybone.
We've both changed much since then, have we not?
O ye of little faith. I know better than to leave home without ample supplies, thank you very much─I didn't pick up the gunblade yesterday.
And to think I used to prefer fighting from the shadows. Gods, I really have changed.
We've come far together, and if we have aught to say about it, we'll go further still. Aye, we will avert this calamity and return home.
In preparation for which, we must give thought to what we hope to achieve after the proverbial dust has settled.
What with the primals and Ascians all but dealt with, I suppose we'll need to look for new hobbies.
In all seriousness, though─in uniting to overcome a common foe, the disparate peoples of the world have found a way forward together. It's a truly gratifying sight to see.
Indeed... Though it was many years in the making, we have successfully set in motion the gears of fundamental change.
With this, we have fulfilled our humble role as a symbol of hope...and I daresay it is time to bow out.
After all, there is no shortage of hands to bear the torch in our stead.
You know, I never really considered I might live long enough to see an after.
But even if my time as a Scion came to an end, I don't expect that much would change.
Traveling the world, going wherever the wind blows, lending a hand to those in need...
A journey for journey's sake. It doth suit thee well. I must confess, I too have yearned to see more of the world.
If thou art amenable to the suggestion, I would accompany thee. Mine ability to affect an air of normalcy through artful disguise is much improved, thou must concede...
Aye, well, improvement is relative. You still look suspicious no matter what you wear.
What of you, Y'shtola? Any grand plans?
Why, continue my quest for knowledge, naturally. To begin with, I wish to know the state of the reflections, to which end I must find a means to travel between worlds.
'Tis the least I must do if I am to keep my promise.
Should my pursuits prove unduly arduous, I won't hesitate to call on you.
And in return, I will take you to see Ryne one day. I'm sure you cannot wait to see the fine young woman she has become.
Spare me...
And what of thee? What wouldst thou pursue at duty's end?
