Biometric authentication complete. Please state your business.
Acknowledged. Reinitializing Syrcus Tower systems. Searching for “Elidibus” entity...
Target located in subterranean core power accumulator. Projecting image.
My home... My friends... No more than a dream...
You... Why have you awakened me?
I no longer sense those places beyond...or Lord Zodiark. You must explain all.
So. He is fallen, and my brethren's souls returned to the star...
The doom we sacrificed so much to prevent is come again. Old burdens, now yours to bear.
But...if this is Fandaniel's design, then I, as Elidibus, have a duty to fulfill.
Your unsolicited act has restored to me some few memories of the Convocation.
Such knowledge as I have, I will share.
I do this not for you. I merely perform my duty, as I have ever done.
Why apologize for receiving a favor of the defeated? If it sits ill, consider it payment for freeing Lord Zodiark from servitude.
Where to begin... Ah. The end. Your understanding of what caused the Final Days is consistent with our own.
The decay first took root where the currents were weakest. Yes...a conclusion drawn by him. Fandaniel.
Not the him of here and now, but as I knew him. Long, long ago...
Having shed light upon the phenomenon, he dedicated himself to devising a countermeasure.
Were it not for his knowledge of the celestial, we would never have made the connection─and thence forestalled the Final Days.
And though he inherited that noble soul...how different, this last incarnation. So consumed by self-loathing and hate.
...Elpis? Yes...the name is familiar to me.
Yet I know it not as a flower, but a place.
A testing facility for determining which of our creations were fit to be released into the world.
Many worked there. And before joining the Convocation and assuming the title of Fandaniel, he was their chief...
He...was Hermes...
That...is all I know.
The crystals tell little of the lives the Fourteen led prior to their induction.
Elpis itself would tell even less. Nary a ruin has survived─
Wait... I saw you there. In Elpis.
No...I did not...but I did. I did. A lingering trace of impossibility...
And a truth...that fills my heart...
My memories remain clouded, I fear. However...they have revealed to me one possible course.
You must travel to Elpis─to the time when Hermes served as its chief.
In glimpsing the Exarch's memories, not only did I make his summoning magick mine own─I also mastered the workings of this tower.
Which, having absorbed my empowered essence, now harbors an abundance of energy.
As such, I believe I can deliver you unto the past. Unto that place and that precise moment.
Given the eons that must be traversed, the gateway will not be fully formed.
Your form will be less tangible still than those Warriors of Light I had summoned.
In all likelihood, none will be able to see or hear you.
Yet even should you manage to interact with others, you will be unable to effect meaningful change.
For the reality you wish to save─the reality to which you must return─exists as a result of the Final Days.
You cannot reshape the past to undo the tragedies of the present. Cannot unmake the sorrow and suffering fated to come.
In full knowledge of this, will you still entrust your life to your foe and make the journey?
Very well. I shall cast you unto the river of time. Let this be my final act.
You must input the commands. I no longer have the authority.
First, you must reconfigure the systems, that the tower's aether may be channeled for the magick...
The preparations are complete. The gateway will soon open. Return at once to the Ocular.
All appears to be in order. The aether flows unimpeded.
The magick should consume every last mote of my essence.
Why are you surprised? Did I not say that this will be my final act?
Lord Zodiark is no more. There is nothing for me here.
The ones I love and long to see again are waiting. In that promised land, beyond memory and dream...
Now go, Warrior of Light. Go...and do not look back.
Well, Hydaelyn. I take my leave of You. Yours is the mantle of the last of us.
May You have...the joy of it. The burden...and the solitude.
It falls to You now—You and Your champion—to save our star.
It falls to You now—You and Your champion—to save our star.
It falls to You now—You and Your champion—to save our star.
It falls to You now—You and Your champion—to save our star.
