Begging your pardons! I bear a message from the Eorzean Alliance!
Thank the gods for that. We have a visitor.
Welcome to the Rising Stones. If you have a message, I should be most eager to hear it.
My lady! The Alliance leadership will soon convene to discuss the matter of Ascian interference, and they humbly request the presence of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.
Having assessed intelligence provided by the Ala Mhigan Resistance concerning the whereabouts of Zenos's remains, they too suspect Ascian involvement, and wish to deliberate a suitable course of action.
As the foremost authorities on our foe, your order's counsel would be most welcome.
Of course, we should be glad to assist in whatever way we can.
With almost everyone else afield, I'd say this one falls to us. By which I mean, I'm not going on my own. You'll come with me, I trust?
If you would rather not, how do you think I feel? I despise formal occasions, as you well know. But in the absence of Alphinaud and the others, we'll just have to grin and bear it, won't we.
Well, there you have it. We accept the invitation.
Thank you! The time and date of the meeting will be shared in due course, but I can confirm that the council will take place in Ala Mhigo. By your leave...
I somehow doubt we'll have anything useful to offer, but standing mutely at a meeting would still be better than the nothing I've been doing of late. Let's make ready to depart, shall we?
...Thancred!? What's going on, man?
...All right! Just be careful on the road back, ye hear!
Did I hear right, Riol? Is Thancred coming back?
Aye, that he is. Says he's acquired some important intelligence.
Bein' in Garlean territory, though, he couldn't risk sharin' the particulars in case the imperials were listenin' in. So he said he'd head back as quick as he could, and to make sure someone was waitin' for him in the Ala Mhigan Quarter.
Understood! Forename and I will go!
We're bound for Ala Mhigo anyway, and there's sure to be time before the council begins. Come on, let's be off.
You two are a sight for sore eyes. Now all I need is water for my parched throat. Fetch me a cup, will you? Traipsing through imperial territory is thirsty work...
Gods, I needed that.
I won't bother telling you to catch your breath. Whatever brought you galloping back to us, I assume it's urgent.
Quite. Without further ado, then.
After the successful uprisings in Doma and Ala Mhigo, rebels in several other provinces were inspired to follow suit. Unfortunately, they did not fare quite so well.
The Dalmascans paid the heaviest price. For their defiance, the Emperor made a show of razing their capital to the ground, prompting many of their neighbors to abandon thoughts of resistance.
But not all have given up on liberty. Heartened by the news of Doma's prisoner exchange, some still believe that the Empire may one day be amenable to negotiation.
We have the shinobi to thank for spreading the good word. They have worked tirelessly to keep the subjugated informed, and a little knowledge can go a long way.
There is at least a spark of hope, then.
A spark in want of kindling, yes. The Alliance has already begun supplying materiel to resistance movements abroad, many of whom would otherwise struggle to continue the fight.
The support effort is being led by the sultana and the Elder Seedseer, who have both seen enough Ala Mhigan refugees to know the consequences of oppression. And for their troubles, they have quickly earned a reputation as folk heroes in certain corners of the Empire.
That is all for the provinces. As for the Garlean motherland itself...
Our friends the Populares have suffered something of a setback, I regret to say. Talk is rife that Doma has summoned a primal, and the Empire's more liberal voices are being drowned out in the fearful clamor for retribution.
And who do they think orchestrated this summoning!?
Oh, any but those truly responsible. Zenos has seen to that.
Speaking of whom, the crown prince is recovering remarkably well. Well enough, in fact, to enable him to personally tour the provinces, putting the fear of the Emperor into the hearts of any would-be dissidents.
He walks in plain sight? And none suspect him? Then it's as we feared...
Yes. An Ascian wears his skin.
...But it was not that which brought me here in such haste. During my time in the provinces, I learned many things, yet at no point did I hear any report of a Doman emissary in the capital.
But Alphinaud should have arrived by now. Could they be holding him there in secret?
The possibility did cross my mind─but I have reason to believe he never reached his destination.
As you know, Scions assigned to covert operations, such as Riol and myself, are issued special linkpearls for communication in the event of an emergency.
I mention this because it was originally Alphinaud's task to coordinate the response at headquarters─meaning he has one. And whose voice should I hear when mine recently crackled to life...?
You spoke with Alphinaud!?
Spoke with, no. I but heard his voice─and none too clearly at that. Two words were all I could make out.
“The Burn.”
The wasteland on the edge of Othard? Something must have happened to them there!
There's no time to waste! We must make for the Burn at once!
I had a feeling you might say that.
And? I can't very well sit around here drinking tea if Alphinaud is in trouble. You said yourself that this linkpearl was only to be used in emergencies.
So I'm going, and that's the end of it.
Well, far be it from me to change your minds.
Loath though I am to neglect making preparations for the council, we must act swiftly before Alphinaud's trail goes cold.
I propose we first pay Hien a visit. He's sure to want to hear about these developments, and he may well be able to advise us on how best to reach the Burn.
A sound plan. And Y'shtola is in Doma, is she not? I daresay she'd join you in the search if you asked her nicely.
While you see to all that, I shall go and report my findings to the Alliance. You may leave any preparations for the council to me.
Thank you, Thancred. Right, to Doma, then. We have much and more to share with Y'shtola.
...Hmm. That is curious indeed. While other matters demand my attention at present, I shall bear what you have told me in mind. Should you notice any change, do not hesitate to seek me out.
