Scions! A pleasure to have you with us again.
You'll be happy to hear we've taken Ala Ghiri, and have already begun fortifying it as our new base of operations in the Peaks. Give a shout to the lads as you pass, eh?
I remember how they laughed. Alliance and Resistance soldiers,eager for battle, trading jokes as we marches east towards the Peaks...
Beyond this last line of defenses lay the Lochs and the city. Breaching it would be no small feat.
But we beat the imperials back, just like that, and we liberated a village. The first of many...
As you can see, this part of the Peaks is much higher than the northern reaches, hence why the imperials built Specula Imperatoris where they did.
See those three towers to the east? That's her. Sits right on the edge of a cliff, so attacking from the north is a fool's errand. From the south, on the other hand, she's no different from any other imperial installation.
You see now why Velodyna was so important, eh? Right, then. Come along─they're waiting for us in Ala Ghiri.
Here we are. The new base of operations for the Alliance and the Resistance!
Ah, there you are!
Greetings, General. I see you have been quite busy in our absence.
Less than you may imagine. The imperials fled at our coming, and we took the village without a fight.
Your timing is impeccable. We were about to discuss our strategy to seize Specula Imperatoris.
Though we are fresh from the road, we should be glad to attend.
Good. Take a moment to gather yourselves, and join us when you are ready.
Well, you heard the Flame General. Looks like we've got a meeting to attend!
That everyone? Then let us begin.
Ala Ghiri is ours, and for a mercy we took it without losing a single man. But we dare not grow complacent─Specula Imperatoris will not be so easily won.
If I may, General─should we not pause to consider the imperials' motivations? For Zenos to surrender a fortified settlement of strategic importance without so much as firing a shot is...inexplicable.
We searched the village and found no traps or other signs of sabotage. Suspicious though it may be, I will not refuse this gift from our enemy.
The path to Ala Mhigo is through the east─through Specula Imperatoris, and Castrum Abania. It bears repeating, however, that the latter is home to a massive cannon with unparalleled range and destructive power.
Which means that we will need to strike Specula Imperatoris quickly, both to limit their ability to locate our forces in the field, and to utilize the installation as a shield against attack, as they would doubtless not risk damaging the towers.
I see... Then we have no choice but to accept what we have been given.
Aye, that's the way of it. I've no doubt that Zenos has got something planned, but we'll just have to deal with it when the time comes.
To the assault, then. The main host will commence a direct assault on Specula Imperatoris. During this time, I would hold the Scions in reserve at Ala Ghiri to deal with any imperial forces that may be dispatched in response.
Understood.
Wait a minute! We should be fighting with you and the Resistance!
I understand you don't want to rely too much on Forename after what she's been through, but at least let the rest of us do our part!
Thanks. I knew you would understand.
I won't. I promise I'll do what Conrad says.
...Mayhap it would be best if I accompanied you. Alisaie can stay with Forename.
Oh, go if you must. The two of us can take care of ourselves.
You have your orders. Dismissed!
You have your orders. Dismissed!
My...my head...
Let us see...
So...she lives. Impressive...or merely lucky.Though that too may prove a useful trait.
My lord...what have you done to me...?
