Do you see the Gridanian standard? There, hanging behind the Elder Seedseer.
The entwined serpents represent the unity between Hyur and Elezen. An elegant symbol, do you not agree?
In accordance with the will of the elementals, we have embraced a life of peace. Alas, our neighbors have not always sought the same for themselves─nor for us.
Though we Gridanians have no love for war, we have still less for those who would threaten our way of life. Ever have we fought to protect the sanctity of the Twelveswood.
When the Garlean Empire brought its war of conquest to Eorzea, we rallied under the noble standard of the Twin Adder, that we might push back the encroaching darkness.
And it was we who prepared the ground for the reformation of the Eorzean Alliance, that all the peoples of this realm might stand united against the common threat.
Five years ago, the Alliance met the armies of the Empire upon the fields of Carteneau.
It would prove the bloodiest battle in recent memory. Countless Gridanian lives were lost.
As supreme commander of the Order of the Twin Adder, ever shall I bear the weight of our people's sacrifice.
Alas, their loss was not the only tragedy to befall us that day, for soon came the Calamity.
The scars borne by our forest are a constant reminder of its violence. Our lives have been irrevocably changed, each waking hour a struggle to survive.
Driven to desperation, some among us have strayed from the path of righteousness, resorting to banditry, poaching, and other unconscionable deeds.
To compound our woes, the Ixal have returned in force, emboldened by our suffering. They test our defenses nigh without cease, and prey upon the vulnerable.
So beleaguered from within and without, it is of little wonder that our unity now falters. Dark times are upon us.
Time was, a man could walk the highroads without fear.
A pox on the bloody Ixal!
On this day, five years ago, countless Eorzeans laid down their lives that we might behold another dawn. Please join with me in honoring their memory.
