Kweh! Kweh!
Do my eyes deceive me, or do I spy a lasslad who looks like shehe could do with some proper summer recreation? That's right─the sun's rays are out in full force, and so is our beloved Moonfire Faire!
Do my eyes deceive me, or do I spy a familiar face who looks like shehe could do with some proper summer recreation? That's right─the sun's rays are out in full force, and so is our beloved Moonfire Faire!
These days, the event doubles as free promotion for the Adventurers' Guild, you know. The brave and the bold show off their heroics, and afterwards, the faire guests flock to the Guild in droves to hire them.
But the real star of the show is the acclaimed Eorzean Nimble Warrior course, bringing in hundreds upon hundreds of new challengers!
At any rate, we could really use more help out there, so if perchance I've piqued your interest, I suggest you ship out to Costa del Sol and speak to our chief chaperone Haermaga!
The Moonfire Faire is ever short of hands, so if yours happen to be idle at the moment, we'd love to have you in Costa del Sol!
Welcome one and all to the Moonfire Faire! You've got more of an adventurer's look about you, but... Well, we should be glad of the help regardless.
Forename! Now there's a sight for sore eyes. Did Mayaru Moyaru send you out here to lend a hand?
This year, the event is shaping up to be a thrill for visitors and staff alike! Allow me to give you a brief outline of what we have planned.
In case the screaming and splashing hadn't given it away, we've brought back the Eorzean Nimble Warrior course with all of its explosive challenges intact!
And if the summer sun gets to be too much, grant yourself a refreshing reprieve by enjoying an icy treat or playing with the polar bears!
Even better, this year we've added a little Far Eastern flair with these hand fans. They're called “uchiwa,” and they drive away evil spirits, or so I'm told.
To ensure their authenticity, we hired an expert in the art of the festival to craft us a hundred crates of them! And what color could be more fitting for Moonfire than bright, blazing red?
To ensure their authenticity, we hired an expert in the art of the festival─a little Namazu fellow─to craft us a hundred crates of them! And what color could be more fitting for Moonfire than bright, blazing red?
Seeing as the origins of the event can be traced back to the Bombard hunts of years past, I say uchiwa are a perfect fit for the spirit of the occasion─and judging from the sizable crowds, I'm far from the only one!
The downside, of course, is that we presently find ourselves quite ill-equipped to manage a turnout of this magnitude. Personally, I'd like to bolster our security cadre if I can.
As it stands, none of us would be able to leave our posts in the event of a serious emergency. So, given the fortuitous timing of your arrival, could I ask you to─
