We rise, fall, and rise again!
Don't worry about us. You must take the next step, and all the rest after that.
Don't worry about us. You must take the next step, and all the rest after that.
Please... Please... Oh, please let them all be safe...
Krile? Are you all right?
It's nothing... Just a headache.
They'll be fine... I know they will...
Apologies for the interruption! A man arrived on the last ferry. An associate of the Scions!
He wishes to speak with you at once!
He wishes to speak with you at once!
He wishes to speak with you at once!
If you need a push, I'll be right there behind you.
Do not despair! You are not without allies.
What we have sown in blood, we have reaped in suffering, and it cannot go on.
Upon the souls of they who have sacrificed themselves to pave the way for peace, we will never abandon our cause.
While it is true that man succumbs all too often to anger and avarice, he may yet overcome his baser instincts through the forming of bonds with others.
Such victories are rarely won without sacrifice. But the prize is worth the price.
And we for our part are glad indeed to be able to welcome friends both old and new...
Save your tears for the morrow. You may be sure we will have ample cause to shed them, be they for joy or despair.
From tragedy and sacrifice we rise to greet a new dawn.
A future shaped by the choices we made, in ways we could never have foreseen.
Yet miracles do happen. So let us pray, and will our friends home.
I won't stop praying until I know they're safe.
Strong art thou, mortal.
Look to the light within, that you may continue to serve as a beacon to others.
Let's finish this.
Here the path ends. There is no way to reach our nest.
I told you. Resignation and acceptance reign in this place.
The rejection of life by those who came to curse it.
Those whose dreams were unfulfilled. Whose prayers were unheard. Whose labors were unrewarded.
Hope cannot deliver you unto hopelessness. Our refuge is beyond you.
Always has it been. Such is the nature of this place.
You should have remained on Etheirys.
Struggle will avail you naught, nor will it grant your comrades peace.
Come, let me relieve you of your burden. You have suffered enough.
Azem's magick. So long as our souls remain, you can use it to summon us back. But you mustn't.
Wh-What are your orders?
Is it because we do not share your faith?
How do we make peace with the dreadful algebra of necessity?
That's why...it's too soon for this to end.
All...all by myself!?
There are so many people in the world who care for you, and yet...
To live is to suffer. To drink of calamity and drown in anguish.
You must triumph.
Be safe, all of you. And come back.
Then will you see how the hardships make you strong.
It was worth it. It was all worth it!
I am ever grateful.
What I came to appreciate most about our star is that there remains so much we do not know.
After all these years...is this the answer I was hoping for?
I want you to make me a promise.
On a night like tonight, the wind and cold seem to pass me by.
This is why we choose to fight.
And...Be safe!
'Tis plain they care for you. And I am glad they have such a steadfast companion watching over them.
So long as we remember, our fates remain ours to shape.
At war's end, I pray I welcome thee back into my hall.
Go...and godsspeed.
Now go, Warrior of Light. Go...and do not look back.
Perhaps when our time comes to return to the star, we shall remember these few days we have lost.
We must wait until we return to the aetherial sea...
Executing universal memory alteration.
Do not squander it. The legacy I leave you.
I bid them remember, but all this time, I'm the one who had forgotten... A right fool you've made of me, Hermes.
And to add insult to injury, I've been denied a sound rest, forced to watch this clamorous show.
Oh come now, it's been a gripping tale. Unbreakable bonds and noble sacrifice, sprinkled with moments of levity to counterbalance the pathos. It's got it all.
I for one would have been perfectly content to watch enraptured from the stalls...
But I won't say no to a bit part!
What are you?
Half-faded souls of the dead. Isn't it painfully obvious?
Worry not─we haven't the power to defeat you. Nor is it our duty to do so. Not anymore.
That being said, we do have a score to settle.
So, here I am, Venat. I suppose you needed me to tie it all together, these frayed threads of our history─but knowing you, I suspect there's a joke in it too. Oh yes, I can imagine you gloating over my forgetfulness.
Were I feeling charitable, I might assume you had left room for the possibility of this outcome.
Even so, you'll get no applause from me. A single gesture will not lighten the burden I've had to bear.
Still, you must be commended. Our methods would not have brought mankind this far.
And so, as a show of respect to the last of us, I make this declaration.
You will not end our journey!
That is our answer! The answer of all lives of Etheirys, past and present!
As you've called us to the stage, so shall we perform. And creation magicks never fail to please.
Drawing upon the hopes of your comrades, we will make for you a new path.
What form said path takes depends on you. So focus─focus and envision that which rejects the claim that you cannot attain your goal!
Ours is the wisdom to weave the fabric of reality...
Ours is the power to create!
Meteion.
Though I gave you these wings to soar the heavens, I did not teach you how to walk the earth. So loath was I to bind another living being.
In the course of your long journey, you will learn from those you meet. Learn to walk and run and so much more.
A flower.
Yes. Upon your return, I will gift you a beautiful flower.
These Elpis blooms serve as proof that this realm is not utterly devoid of hope. No more can you deny its power. No more is yours the dominion of despair.
In case the practical implications were lost on you, your comrades no longer need fight their fight.
So, go on. Call them back to your side.
May you ever walk... in the light...
How disappointing. Not even a single scar in the making to brag about.
You'll find a way regardless.
Honestly... This is far more than any of us could have hoped for. Let us be thankful.
Indeed. That we thus stand reunited is a gift. Let us not squander it, and see that we all return to Etheirys.
Aye, as soon as we've averted the Final Days!
Good to see you again. Our heroic sacrifice paid off, I take it?
Come, my friends. Let us carry on and finish it─together.
Can you...hear me...?
The voices within... Crying in pain, wailing in sorrow... Hurting... Hurting...
End it...silence it... Silence our song of oblivion!
The way is open. They can proceed.
So it seems.
You're leaving!?
Of course. The encore is finished, and I will not suffer myself to live again by Hydaelyn's magick.
But more than that, the future you seek is not the past we loved. That is why we fought. And why I lost.
But though you defeated me, my ideals are inviolate. Invincible.
Spare me your pity. I have no use for it. If you would do something for me─save our star.
See this tale to a triumphant conclusion, and with elation in your hearts, bid the final curtain fall.
Only then may it rise again and a new tale begin─with new parts for all to play.
Tell me, have you been to the ruins beneath the waters of the Bounty?
Or the treasure islands beyond the frozen waters of Blindfrost, in Othard's north?
The fabled golden cities of the New World? The sacred sites of the forgotten people of the south sea isles?
What about Meracydia, the southern continent? Do you know aught of its present state of affairs?
...I thought not. Even of your little Eorzea, you know precious little. The true identities of the Twelve, for instance.
All of which is to say: expand your horizons. Go forth and seek discovery. Some of the civilizations in the reflections will surprise you.
As the bearer of Azem's crystal, you may consider your duty to see at least that much.
I certainly did.
I pray we meet again. If not in this life, then perhaps another.
Whensoever it should be, I trust it will be a most joyous reunion.
For you, maybe. I want nothing to do with it.
Oh, don't be that way.
'Tis my fervent hope that our ancient friends will find a new beginning─they and all of their brethren who have returned to the aetherial sea.
For that to come to pass, we must succeed. We must avert the Final Days and save Etheirys.
As different and mysterious as the ancients may be, they were people not unlike us.
The first people to fall and feel pain. And the first forced to find a way to rise again.
From them we have come, and in our pain and suffering, we are connected.
To go and see all those places and more... Emet-Selch has given you quite a task.
Suffice it to say, I should be glad to assist you. Once we've returned together triumphant, of course.
No need to explain─I have a rough idea what happened while I was...gone.
It was a strange feeling. As though I was struggling in a pitch-black sea. A powerful tide was trying to wash me away─one that churned with hatred and envy for life─and it was all I could do to swim against it. Then suddenly I was here.
It felt long and short at the same time. Hazy as in a dream. But through it all, one thing was crystal clear: you fought with all your being to keep our hopes alive.
I can't claim I fully understood the workings of this place. But in that moment, I felt I knew what I needed to do.
I felt that it was the right time to offer up this life I owe. That I could risk it all on the wager that the rest of you would manage without me.
Full glad am I to see that I was right.
For all the lives on those stars whose light hath been extinguished─for the ancients who went before us─I offer a solemn prayer...
I don't think I ever knew what to say to the man. In retrospect, it always felt like the wrong thing...
But the past notwithstanding, he came to your aid in your moment of need.
We are here, and we will not squander this chance he has given us!
We will see this tale to a triumphant conclusion, and bid the final curtain fall!
Let's usher in an ending worthy of the grandest ovation─one that will give all Etheirys cause to raise their voices in celebration!
Are you ready, Forename?
Then let us set forth for the reckoning.
Having come this far, I know everyone's resolve is beyond doubt. So I will say only this.
Within that dead sun swirls the emotions that Meteion has hoarded. The emotions of innumerable souls who strove for happiness but failed.
As it was with the denizens of Ultima Thule that barred our way, it is not for us to rebuke and admonish.
'Twas not by passing judgment on the tragic legacies of others that we arrived at this moment.
Rather, it was by opening our hearts to their despair─by understanding and acknowledging their fates, while still refusing to share in them ourselves. To hold fast to hope, not in ignorance but by choice.
Should you struggle to do so, I am here to help. As you have all helped me.
Aye!
Emet-Selch and Hythlodaeus created these flowers from our hopes.
If so, mine and Alisaie's shall live on here...
The hope that you will find happiness at journey's end.
So let us go, Forename, and see this tale to its conclusion!
As Alphinaud says, everyone's resolve is beyond doubt. Yet ere we set forth, there is a thought to which I must give voice.
While you were in Elpis, I understand that people assumed you were a familiar.
In contrast, those phantoms we encountered in the recreated Amaurot regarded us as children.
As people, albeit naive and immature.
The discrepancy, I posit, is a reflection of their creator's perspective. Having spent eons among sundered men, perhaps he came to acknowledge us, even if only subconsciously.
With Emet-Selch gone, we may never learn the truth. But I will not suffer this and countless other mysteries to go unsolved. Our journey will not end this day.
I am returned, thanks to you, but we still have work to do if we are to make our promise a reality.
Having you show me the sights in Ishgard, then regaling me your greatest adventures, then embarking on a new adventure together... For these things and more, I will fight.
...What? Could there possibly be an adventure greater than this one?
Of course! So long as you desire it and dare to take the first step, there is absolutely no limit!
Just so you know, Forename, I won't try to keep up with you in the coming battle.
No, I mean to surpass you! If there's anyone who'll need to keep up, it's Estinien!
I'm not joking. Both Alphinaud and I have worked hard and come far. It's time we set our sights higher.
So you had better watch out, else you'll find yourself in my wake!
Thus far, we have encountered recreations of some few stars. Doubtless they account for but a fraction of the innumerable worlds to whose fall Meteion did bear witness.
Roiling with torment, the dead sun is forsooth oblivion's apotheosis. It shall be no small coup to breach this nexus of despair.
And yet, as this vista doth prove, where there is hope, there is a way. So let us press forward together, as e'er we have, and find our way unto victory.
It seems our arms and armor are in order, as are our personal effects.
Most importantly, we have each other. We need only finish what we came here to do.
Avert the end. For Minfilia, for Ryne, for all who aspire to live.
So, the moment of reckoning is finally upon us... I must say, when I pledged myself to your cause, never did I imagine that it would bring me to the very edge of existence.
Not that I'm complaining, mind you. After casting aside vengeance and shedding title and duty, I found myself wanting for purpose. In journeying with you, there has been nary a dull moment.
In the course of it all, I feel as though I have found a new place for myself. And a welcome opportunity to see how much the boy has grown.
I owe you a debt, aye. But as you can guess, I've ever preferred to express my gratitude through action rather than word. My lance is yours.
So you are finally here. In this place between death and rebirth, where life knows no dawn.
Come then. Follow me down into the darkest depths of despair.
Once upon a time, there was a beautiful blue star...
...that fell to pestilence, and rotted inside and out.
