The limitless potential of man... Hydaelyn's servant grows mightier by the day.
Yet she prospers at great cost to her mistress...whose strength is all too finite. Seven times have the masses survived the Rejoining, but their souls are grown weak and wan...
Yet even as it enervates, the Ardor empowers our master. All that remains is to nurture the strength of the gifted─to forge the final key.
...And that is the task to which we bend our every effort.
Divine seeds were ever wont to quicken in Eorzea's fertile soil. We need only lead men to the field, and by their eager hands shall a new deity arise.
That which was shattered shall be made anew...and the one true god shall come again.
Now the matter of Ramuh has, for the present, been put to rest, there is something I would show you, Forename.
It is a letter of thanks, signed by the leaders of the Eorzean Alliance, acknowledging the Scions' tireless service to the realm.
It mentions, in particular, the names of all of the defeated primals─Ifrit, Titan, Garuda, Good King Moggle Mog XII, Leviathan, and now Ramuh.
Needless to say, there is only one among our number to have faced them all.
And though these words of gratitude were addressed to our order as a whole, I feel that they were meant for you above all others.
I, too, must offer my heartfelt thanks for all that you have done. In the course of your duties, you have never once failed to answer my call to arms.
You are a true hero, Forename, and Eorzea is that much the safer for your presence.
Pray do not misunderstand me─I said “safer,” not “safe.” I know only too well that we can ill afford to lower our guard. The Ascians may be relied upon to sow chaos in this realm until such time as they are forced to stop.
Why, even without their encouragement, you may be assured that man would foment strife on his own. And that is to say nothing of the beast tribes. Unless we learn to live in harmony, the primals, too, will return to plague us again and again and again...
And yet...despite all of this, your deeds serve to inspire the people─to give them hope for a better tomorrow. And there is no greater gift.
That we have the courage to strive for what might otherwise seem an impossible peace, we owe in no small part to the dangers you have faced on our behalf, and the people you have won over to our cause in so doing. Our list of enemies has ever been long, but think of the allies with whom we are now blessed...
Of the beastmen who wish naught of conflict, and who now call you friend.
Of Alisaie, who strives to unearth the terrible secrets of the Calamity.
And then there is Cid and the fellowship of NOAH, racing to unlock the mysteries of ancient Allag that we might be spared the horror of another Ultima Weapon.
...Of course, when speaking of our greatest allies, we must not forget those closest to us, by which I mean our fellow Scions.
Thanks to their many and varied talents, our order is uniquely equipped to combat the far-reaching corruption of the Ascians─and combat it we shall!
Your enthusiasm is truly heartwarming, Antecedent. Given our embarrassing wealth of allies, I trust it will not inconvenience you unduly if I absent myself for a time?
Alphinaud! I take it the troubles in Ul'dah no longer require your attention?
There are yet some rumblings of discontent, but the air of simmering violence is largely dissipated. 'Tis to report such that I stand before you now.
That...and to speak with you concerning the new organization we discussed.
Ah, I have a message for you from Ele─ Ahem. You recall the refugee girl? The one whose parents were missing? They were found unharmed. She wished me to pass on her thanks to you.
Why, Alphinaud! Am I to understand that you made the effort to remember the poor girl's name? I look forward to reading all about her in your report. I do hope you left nothing out!
Forename─you have been away from Revenant's Toll for some time now, I believe. Might I suggest that you put the affairs of the realm to one side for the moment and take this opportunity to reacquaint yourself with the town?
...Which reminds me─one of the Doman children recently inquired as to your whereabouts. Yozan was his name. I believe he has some small matter he wishes to share with you. Why not oblige him with a visit?
Look! It's Miss Forename! She's back from her adventures!
We heard you were off fighting “primals,” and that they're some of the strongest enemies you could ever face! I wish I could've seen you in battle...
Anyway, we all want to be heroes, too─so we finally formed our very own Doman Adventurers' Guild to protect all the Domans!
Oh! Do you think you could train us today, Miss Forename? Maybe you could show us how you fought the primals!
