O Lord of the Inferno! Almighty Ifrit! Grant us succor in our hour of need!
Save us, Titan, Lord of Crags! Ah, it hurts us so, the pain, the pain...
What is she─ Twelve preserve, she cannot mean to─
No... No, this is all wrong...
Stop gawping, boy! We must run!
Surrender yourselves unto me... I would feast upon your aether. NONE SHALL STAND AGAINST THE WIND!
BEAR WITNESS TO THE GLORY OF THE EMPIRE!
It is you who will suffer, Garuda!
Ancient Allag had ways of dealing with your kind. Now, look on their ultimate weapon, eikon, and despair!
No... Nooo! NOOO!
Magnificent! It exceeds all expectation!
With each primal it consumes, it grows more powerful. A marvel, is it not?
Such is the fate of those who oppose the Empire!
There will be no Warriors of Light to save you this time.
If your leaders are as wise as they are reported, they will surrender.
Your skills are impressive, but they will not be enough.
Twelve have mercy! What chance have we against such an ungodly creation!?
And who was that armored devil!?
That was Gaius van Baelsar, legatus of the XIVth Imperial Legion, and supreme commander of the Garlean invasion force in Eorzea.
Of course, the Black Wolf─how could I not realize? Grandfather mentions him in his journal!
I was never so naive as to think the man would abandon his ambitions, but these developments are beyond my worst expectations...
What have you been doing these past five years? How could something of this magnitude have escaped the Alliance's attention?
We heard no whispers, saw no signs. In the wake of the Calamity, the Empire seized land and built outposts, but that was the extent of their aggression.
Damn it, Gaius, where in the seven hells did you find that thing?
It has been a day of unexpected developments, but the fact remains: Garuda is no longer a threat.
While I take no comfort in the manner of her downfall, it does mean that we may safely put the matter of the primals to one side─for the time being, at least.
Which just leaves the matter of Gaius's new toy.
Indeed. That weapon poses the greatest threat to Eorzea. It must be destroyed.
But first, we must needs find out all we can.
Let us make for Vesper Bay. We shall rebuild the Scions.
All is not yet lost, my friend─for we bear the light, and shall surely lead our people from the darkness.
Well, that was an experience I would rather not have again.
Something has been troubling me, Forename. Shortly before the Black Wolf took center stage, when Garuda attempted to claim you as her own, I could have sworn I saw...
Ah, but I'm sure I was mistaken. In times of great stress, the evidence of the eye is apt to be misread by even the most inquiring mind. Forget I mentioned it.
Returning to the subject of our earlier discussion, we may consider the matter of the primals closed until further notice. No beast tribe will dare summon their god so long as that weapon exists.
Truly, a more effective deterrent I could not imagine. It almost seems a shame to plot its destruction...
It is past time that we return to the Waking Sands.
To leave our headquarters in disrepair any longer would be to dishonor the memory of those who fell there.
We have been brought to our knees, but we will rest, rebuild, and rise once more.
Tell me, Forename...does aught here strike you as odd? I see signs of recent habitation. Could it be that we have trespassers?
Hm. Mayhap it is just my imagination. Come, let us proceed into the solar.
Wait.
Who goes there!?
Now, now, Yda─is that any way to greet a friend?
Alphinaud! Forename!
Cid!? Wait, is this a dream?
Not that I'm aware of! It's been a while, Yda.
I...I don't believe it... I was sure you'd been─
This place has seen better days.
Uh...you know, I wasn't actually here when... I-I was still in talks at the Adders' Nest...
The first I knew about it was when I came back, and...and I saw...
Yda...
The church had taken care of the bodies, but that still left...the stains... I-It was hard to know where to start... If Y'shtola hadn't been here to help me─
Y'shtola is here too?
Yes. But she's not here right now. She's gone to Ul'dah to meet a man who might know what happened to the others.
Papalymo and Minfilia weren't among the dead, according to the church. Y'shtola thinks they were taken somewhere.
Upon the orders of the Black Wolf, no doubt.
...Why would he want them?
Because they possess something he desires: knowledge of another power that can be brought to bear against the primals─one that Gaius has yet to harness...
The Echo.
Gaius will be aware of its existence, as well as the immunity it grants the gifted to the primals' influence.
Powerful though his Allagan weapon may be, he would doubtless desire such protection.
He means to use Minfilia to gain an understanding of the Echo.
...None of which explains how the Empire came to know the location of the Waking Sands in the first place...
No matter. The Empire has shown its hand, and now we must act. It is up to us to rebuild the Scions and save Eorzea.
Can I count on you, Yda?
What? Oh, yes─yes, of course! Whatever you need!
We can discuss our next move upon Y'shtola's return.
For now, I say we rest.
Hear...Feel...Think...
Bringer of Light...
Brave gatherer of the Crystals...thy soul burneth bright!
I am Hydaelyn. All made one.
Hearken unto me now, for the Darkness doth begin to spread.
Ware thee the bearer of the Crimson Brand, for he is the Avatar of Shadow, whom daeth attendeth always.
The Crystals shall be thy salvation—thy blade and shield both.
Steel thyself, for at the appointed hour...
Thou shalt shalt stare into the Heart of Darkness.
Go with caution, my child, but fear not—for I am ever with thee.
Y'shtola!
Forename. I see you and Alphinaud are safe. And...and Cid.
That we five should meet each other thus defies simple explanation. It is as if the benevolent hand of Master Louisoix guides us still.
He would not see us undone so easily. Not now, when the need is so great.
I know where Minfilia and the others are being held.
Where?
An imperial stronghold in the heart of Mor Dhona─Castrum Centri.
The rescue of our allies will be no small undertaking, Forename.
Even under normal circumstances, breaching the defenses of an imperial castrum would be a highly dangerous proposition.
But now that Castrum Centri houses prisoners whom the Garleans deem valuable, we may be confident that they have taken additional measures to ensure the stronghold's security.
If we are to free our friends, we will require an effective strategy. And if we are to formulate an effective strategy, we will require intelligence.
I believe I know a man who may be able to assist us in this: Lord Portelaine of House Durendaire. He is stationed at the Observatorium in Coerthas. Let us go to him, and beseech his aid.
Ah, Forename─the woman who unmasked the heretic in our midst! To what do I owe the pleasure of your company?
You are an associate of Y'shtola? But of course. Lord Drillemont confided to me that you were a Scion of the Seventh Dawn...
Castrum Centri? What interest have you all in the imperials?
They hold several of our number─whom we intend to free. Any information you can provide would be greatly appreciated.
I see. That might explain our scouts' reports...
They observed four prisoners being led into the castrum: a Hyuran woman, an Elezen man, and two Lalafells─one male, one female.
It's them! It has to be! Minfilia, Urianger, Papalymo, and Tataru!
If that scant morsel is of use to you, you may also be interested to hear about a more recent incident.
Incident?
An imperial airship made an emergency landing here in Coerthas not long ago. Two men believed to be prisoners─a Roegadyn and a Lalafell─were seen fleeing the craft.
What did you say?
A Roegadyn and a Lalafell, Master Garlond. Neither wore imperial dress, and both seemed disinclined to wait for rescue, hence our assumption that they were prisoners.
Well, I'll be damned...it's Biggs and Wedge! Trust those two rascals to escape...
We must find them, Forename, and soon!
The imperials will not rest until they are captured or killed, and if Biggs were given the choice, I fear he'd take the latter.
Freeing those held in Castrum Centri will require substantial planning and preparation. As such, it is an endeavor that will admit some slight delay.
The matter of the escapees, by contrast, will not. Shortly after the prisoners vacated the airship, our scouts observed imperial troops setting off in pursuit. It is likely only a matter of time before they catch them.
If you wish to see your comrades again, you had best act now.
If, as has been suggested, the Garleans took our fellow Scions prisoner in hopes of understanding the Echo, it seems reasonable to assume that they will not be executed until such time as the study is complete.
But Biggs and Wedge are not Scions, nor do they know aught of the Echo. As Lord Portelaine said, this may prove our only chance to rescue them. I say we seize it.
Thank you, everyone! You won't regret this.
Final preparations are almost complete, my lord.
There stands the culmination of five long years of painstaking work. But all our efforts will be vindicated when the Emperor's vision becomes reality.
At last, we have the power to purge this land of its false gods.
We shall give the ignorant children of Eorzea the security and stability they so desperately crave─and which their spineless leaders have so palpably failed to provide.
As you say, my lord. Rest assured, our engineers will not rest until the weapon is fully armed and operational.
Rhitahtyn. You depart for Castrum Occidens at midnight.
You will command the western front in Vylbrand.
The Eorzeans will attempt to interfere with our plans. You will see that they do not.
My lord, if this be your will, I shall carry it out to the best of my ability. I live only to serve the Empire.
Yet...forgive my impudence, but is it proper to give command of half our forces to a─
I have given you nothing, Praefectus. You have earned it.That will be all. Dismissed.
Yes, my lord!
...My quarters, one hour.
My purpose here is to reconnoiter Garlean activity along Abalathia's Spine. Owing to this, I have the honor of being acquainted with Y'shtola.
Now, the report of the imperial airship's emergency landing came to us by way of Dzemael Darkhold, situated to the west.
Our man stationed at the entrance, a knight named Bricelt, may be able to tell you more. So as to expedite your mission, I shall furnish you with a letter of introduction.
I pray that you will soon be reunited with your comrades. May the Fury grant you strength.
