Noble warriors! The dragons chose their friends well...
Long have our peoples waged war, but no more.
Your fallen lie beside our own. By our words and deeds shall we honor their sacrifice.
The enemy of our enemy is our friend, and you have proven yourselves worthy of our trust. It is the Garleans who are deserving of our fury.
I shall see that my brethren learn the truth of this day, and rally as many as possible to the cause. Till we meet again.
And thus did we make allies of the Amalj'aa...
It would certainly seem that way. The sultana will be pleased. Let's go and give her the good news, shall we?
It would certainly seem that way. The sultana will be pleased. Let's go and give her the good news, shall we?
What in Rhalgr's name happened here?
The gods only know... But you can bet these poor sods aren't here by choice.
Quickly, we've got to get them free!
Get back!
No... What have I done?
It's too late for them! We're leaving. Now!
Noooooo!
Don't you dare! We came together, and we're leaving together!
While it would be too much to hope that we have seen the last of Fandaniel, we have dealt his schemes a telling blow this day, and that alone is cause to celebrate.
And celebrate I will...when we have received word of Arenvald's safe return.
<sigh> Standing around here worrying is not going to help matters. Come, we must discuss the day's events with Pipin and Her Grace.
Brave Scions!
Would that I could treat you to a hero's welcome─but I bear urgent news from the Phrontistery.
Your Grace! Whatever is the matter?
As our troops withdrew from Paglth'an, they came upon the two scouts sent to the nearby tower. I have yet to hear a full account, but it seems that one of them─your friend, I believe─had been wounded, and was being dragged away by the other.
Oh no...
I-I must go. Forgive me, Your Grace!
Can you tell us aught of Arenvald's condition, Your Grace? The wounded scout.
Naught save that it is grave. The chirurgeons tend to him even as we speak.
The infirmary must be inundated with the wounded. If all of us go, we'll only get underfoot. Forename, Estinien─would you mind going after Alphinaud? He may need some support─from someone other than me.
Very well.
Thank you. The rest of us will see that the relevant people know what took place in Paglth'an.
Come on, then.
