Filthy rebels! You will not reach the king!
My psychokinesis will bring you to your knees!
My psychokinesis will bring you to your knees!
What the─!?
Are they resources for souls!?
We deal with them too!
Forming directional gravity field!
Ugh... My body...
It affects living beings too!
Watch where you're standing!
Stubborn vermin... I will deal with you yet!
Disabling limiter. Increasing psychokinesis potency!
Disabling limiter. Increasing psychokinesis potency!
Why!? Why won't you die!?
Unnngh... My head...feels like to split...
Graaagggh! I must win...or else my souls...
It seems the facility is secure.
Don't tell me that was...
To subject people to such heinous experirnents...
Let us press on to the summit!
I'm coming, Zoraal Ja!
It's not opening.
Shale, can you see to the lock?
Just a moment...
Ever reliable.
Follow the passage inside and you'll come to an elevator. It'll take you to the eleventh level.
Right, let's keep moving!
The eleventh level, just below the summit...
Look─soul cells. This is where they're kept.
What!? Then these are all...
Indeed. Many died in the attack. Their souls would have been processed and transported here for storage.
...Or so I had expected.
A soul cell is supposed to light up green when loaded, isn't it?
Yet the light is out on most of these...
Don't tell me he's already used them up!?
That's why he cut down one of his own─for the regulator!
Who's there!?
Alphinaud? And Y'shtola and Estinien too!
Lest you wonder, all is well in Tural. The enemy has withdrawn, freeing us up to come and lend you a hand.
The Backroom crew gave us a briefing. No rest for the righteous as usual, eh?
The idea of empowering oneself with souls is rather reminiscent of voidsent practices. I should be keen to learn more about the process─after more pressing matters have been resolved.
I believe I speak for everyone when I say I'm glad you're here.
As you'll have heard, the Alexandrians have suffered heavy casualties. We must stop Zoraal Ja before it gets any worse.
I thank you for coming with me this far, my friends. And I ask you to lend me your strength one last time.
Together, let us defeat Zoraal Ja and safeguard the future of Tuliyollal!
And here is where I must excuse myself. Come back in one piece, you hear me?
We will! Every one of us!
What in the world is that?
It couldn't be...a voidgate!?
It's enormous!
Aye... It dwarfs even the one Zeromus opened.
That is no voidgate. It doesn't lead to the Thirteenth.
Then...
Yes. In all likelihood, it's a portal to yet another reflection.
By the Twelve... To think that realities being fused together was only the beginning...
The speculation must wait. He's here.
There is a limit to how much aether a living being can harbor while retaining its physical form.
Zoraal Ja has far exceeded that limit.
With the souls he has absorbed, he has attained power to rival even a king among voidsent, but at a terrible cost...
Twelve have mercy...
Brother!
It ends here and now!
How it vexes...when you call me Brother...
Brother... Blood heir... Resilient Son... Who am I? What is my path? Why was I born?
I am Wuk Lamat, Vow of Resolve of Tuliyollal.
And you are Zoraal Ja, King of Resolve of Alexandria.
For the last time we fight. For duty, for blood─for everything!
Yes, we fight.
Hold nothing back. This multitude of souls I shall burn to the last mote.
I will kill you and prove the miracle! I will prove that I am Father's true successor!
Judging from his words, Zoraal Ja will spare no souls for resurrection. He will burn through every last one to achieve his ambition.
If Zoraal Ja isn't holding back, then we need but return the favor. Thus shall we honor Gulool Ja Ja.
Zoraal Ja will require time to fully harness the souls he has absorbed. Ideally, we can finish things beforehand...
Zoraal Ja will not rest until he has brought the entire world to heel. We must put a stop to him once and for all.
We helped Lamaty'i to triumph over Zoraal Ja in the rite of succession. Even if Koana hadn't asked, it is our duty see this battle through.
To strike down her brother for the sake of her people... Hers is a terrible burden. But she has us to help her bear it.
Everyone is counting on us. We cannot lose, no matter what!
Come at me with your all. I will make you kneel.
Let the victor's reign be sanctioned by the blood of the fallen.
I need more power!
The aetheric density has surged...
No backing down!
Is he burning lives!?
Graaah... Hraaah... Hraaagh!
You'll have to do better than that!
Time to strike back!
More! I need more!
The aetheric density has surged even further!
What visions are these?
