Alphinaud...? Alisaie...? It is you!
When I heard you'd been dragged before the Forum, I came as swiftly as I could. I am so very glad they allowed you to stay...
M-Mother!?
Ameliance Leveilleur, at your service.
And you fine people must be the Scions of the Seventh Dawn. How lovely it is to finally meet you!
Mother, please. We don't wish to make things difficult for you. If word reaches Father that you were here─
Oh, bother that. Am I to be chastised for speaking with my own children!? I am well aware that you and “Master Fourchenault” are not on the best of terms at the moment, but I've been absolutely desperate to see my darlings again!
You will come by the house, won't you? I have gifts waiting.
The timing couldn't be better. As matters stand, we shan't be going anywhere until we discuss matters with Thancred's group and reconsider our options.
Go, visit your home. We will be back at the annex when you are ready to rejoin us.
I'm not sure we─ Forename, what do you think?
Forename? The Forename Surname!?
What a splendid day this has turned out to be! Champion of Eorzea, I insist that you join us!
Ah, but we must be quick about it. Not for my own benefit, but should my husband return and find you enjoying our hospitality, the servants will be made to suffer the consequences.
Forename! If you would be so kind as to escort my children to the estate...?
And then she was gone─and with her any opportunity to protest...
Indeed─the matter is settled. Enjoy yourselves, you three!
I'm sure Alphinaud thinks nothing of it─he invited classmates over all the time. But I, well... I wasn't the most... It was a different time for me, all right!?
I apologize... My mother is not one to take no for an answer. Still, I am glad─relieved, even─to see her in such high spirits.
What say you, Forename? Though it seems we shall have little enough time to enjoy it, will you accompany us on our visit home?
Let us give Alisaie a push, then, and be on our way.
Oh no, I'm not going to suffer this by myself. Make sure Alphinaud is coming along first!
Shall we hurry along to the estate? Mother will be wondering where we are.
Fine... If we're going, then let's get it over with! But be sure to stay in the entrance hall─no peeking into our private chambers, thank you very much!
Why ever not? Your room was always perfectly neat and tidy...
Everyone has things they'd rather keep to themselves, don't they? Cherished mementos you couldn't bring yourself to throw away, childhood toys─
I mean, uh... Gah, never mind! The Leveilleur estate is that way, straight down the stairs. Come on!
After all we've been through together, 'tis strange to be here with you now. To come full circle and see how much has changed...
What? Right now? Nothing for it, I suppose, but Mother was most insistent you come as well. We shall be waiting for you by the Rostra.
The Leveilleur estate is in the northern part of Journey's End, just down the stairs from the Rostra.
Oh, and please don't make a fuss when we get there. It's only a house!
Not going after all? Then neither shall I! Though I suppose I'll never hear the end of it from Mother if we don't... Hmm. We'll wait at the Rostra in case you change your mind.
Decided to come with us? And you're sure about this? <sigh> All right...if only to see the smile on Mother's face.
When Alisaie and I were little, this bridge was as far as we were permitted to wander alone.
I say “alone,” but my mother or a servant was always somewhere nearby, keeping a watchful eye.
And now look at us. Traveling to different continents...different worlds, even.
As children, Alphinaud and I would often wait here for our father to come home from work.
It must've been a day when his meetings ran long, because I remember growing restless, and leaning out over the railing to watch the water rush by.
Father, of course, arrived at that exact moment. Came pounding down the path in a panic, crying out my name...
Oh yes, this is where I first practiced magic on an actual person.
Alisaie had fallen, you see, and scraped her knee quite badly─so I tried casting the simple restorative spell I had only just learned.
How she smiled when the wound closed. The joy and relief... That was, I believe, the very moment I chose the healing arts as the main subject of my studies.
We used to come here all the time with Grandfather! In summer, I would dip my hands and feet in the fountain and splash about...
Not Alphinaud, though─even back then, he wasn't very fond of playing in water. He'd make any excuse to avoid it.
Which would explain how I came to swim like an auk, and he sink like a stone!
And here you are at last! Please, do come in!
