Waste not!
How ever did you manage so much in so short a time, though? We expected word to reach only a fraction of our allies...
Did I not tell you I have my ways?
Erenville!? You were involved, too?
I received a letter from Krile after we parted ways in Labyrinthos.
She explained what the Scions were trying to accomplish, and why you might soon require the services of the gleaners, spread across the world as we are.
I pray you do not interpret this as a betrayal of Sharlayan. I accept that the Forum's aim in pushing us to our limits was to preserve what knowledge we have, and I bear you no ill will for it.
Yet, in collecting that knowledge, what I came to appreciate most about our star is that there remains so much we do not know.
That is why I chose to help the Scions─to combat the obliteration of those countless undiscovered wonders. I held no illusions that they would be less demanding taskmasters...though rest assured, if I had, I would have been sorely disappointed.
To make a long story short─the whole of the guildship cooperated to ensure your call was heard far and wide.
What's this about a ship that can fly to the moon?
And why didn't you mention it sooner? The one time you don't beg my aid, your problem's a bloody ship that can fly to the moon!
Cid! You brought the team!
Of course! Garlond Ironworks' finest. You need only point us towards my new favorite ship...
As you like as not suspect, we've also brought adamantite from Mor Dhona's Dalamud shard.
I admit to some consternation upon first receiving Krile's message. So few Scions remain at the Rising Stones now─far too few for such an expedition.
However, the gleaners were able to secure us reinforcements, Idyllshire's treasure hunters not least among them.
Fascinating as all this is, I fail to see how it explains your presence here. Does Radz-at-Han not have more pressing concerns?
We do─yet averting the Final Days would be the most expedient solution. That, and I am indebted to you.
Though they chose to take their leave of Thavnair, those you saved in Garlemald remain my people. My gratitude is beyond words.
'Tis appropriate that I aid you in kind. If in the doing we bring salvation to others of this star, so much the better.
You will recall that I spoke of my father, Midgardsormr, and his journey across the great expanse.
As he traveled betwixt the stars, his resplendent scales drank of the aether in those nigh-empty surrounds, and imparted to him the strength to persevere...
Thinking they might further your cause, I called out to my kin for consent.
Azdaja's answer was silence, as ever.
Tiamat and Hraesvelgr, however, responded favorably to the suggestion.
My sire, too, gave his assent.
Thus have I brought you his own wyrmscales. Fit them to your purpose, and seek a worthier fate for us all.
You'd be hard-pressed to find someone else so familiar with the unique properties of dragon scales, so I invited myself along.
Bugger me, this is so unbelievable I've gone right back round to believin' it again!
Forget a six percent gain in efficiency. With all these goodies, we could get seven─no, ten─no! Fourteen bleedin' percent!
Think of how far we could go─what we could do with that much power! What we could blow up!
If Kokkol is duly convinced, then it must be true─in which case, the Scions' end of the bargain has been fulfilled. Would you not agree?
Yes, Father?
I know not what you seek of Hydaelyn, nor for what purpose you would take command of our ship.
Yet this much is certain─to do so will be to dictate the fate of this star and the lives upon it.
The lives of each and every creature. In their magnitude and their fragility.
Do you understand, and are you prepared?
We have seen and we have felt how much each life shapes this world. And so we are determined to abandon none. We understand what is at stake, and we are prepared to bear this burden.
Then I... I will bear it with you.
I beg you─share your struggles with me. As family.
You grasped my fingers with such tiny hands the day you were born. I thought my heart might burst.
'Twas love and happiness beyond expression. Overwhelming. And a conviction so powerful that I trembled with something close to rage.
I had heard the Final Days foretold. I swore to myself then and there that I would not let them steal your futures.
The great exodus would succeed. Must succeed. No sacrifice or sin was worse than the alternative.
If anything gave me pause...'twas mine own father.
The Archon Louisoix openly decried Sharlayan's policies, a perspective which I regarded with increasing disdain as I grew older.
Yet even as part of me thought him a fool... Perhaps I also hoped that he, of all people, would devise a brilliant means to save my children.
A naive hope─but stubborn enough that I could never bring myself to keep you apart.
No, that was his doing, when he perished at Carteneau.
As we pulled that twisted slab of Dalamud from the sea, I remembered the warmth of your newborn touch. Chastened, I vowed never again to suffer any interference in my mission to protect you.
No matter that you yourselves wished otherwise.
Detest me. Fight me tooth and nail. I would suffer it and more and be satisfied so long as I could force you onto the ship.
I was wrong. You two have grown so much stronger, and so much wiser, than I dared dream.
You have earned the right to walk your own path...and already begun to do so.
Good! Because there are things we care about, and people we love...and none of them is replaceable. Not a one.
It cannot have been an easy journey, for you to have come so far.
We shall be glad to acquaint you with the finer details someday, once this danger has passed. All that we have seen and heard. That we have felt and learned in our travels.
Ours is not a kind world, but it is beautiful. Always.
Oh no, are you quite sure that's wise? After all, someone turns pale and flees the room when he sees so much as an envelope containing word of your adventures.
What ever will happen if he learns what you were really up to?
Ameliance!
Though I have wronged my children most gravely, I owe you an apology as well.
I assumed that it was the Scions' influence that made them so keen to charge headlong into danger.
...Yours, in particular.
I see now that said influence instead brought them together with the many fine people gathered here today.
In which case...I hope you continue to guide them.
If we've finished loitering about the harbor, might I suggest we put our plans into motion? People are beginning to look confused.
Perhaps you can spare a few words ere they resume the tedious lugging of cargo? You've no small number of friends and admirers here, after all.
Your assistance is appreciated. Now, in an orderly fashion, if you please!
The time has come to claim our prize. Are you prepared?
My throat hurts from directing so many people to Labyrinthos...but that only proves we got our money's worth!
If I never see another crate again, it will be too soon.
Unaided, we Scions could never have gathered such a bounty. Refined adamantite, relics sacred and ancient alike...
I find myself quite overcome.
I apologize for not informing you earlier of Erenville's involvement. He was something of a contingency plan.
Thank goodness we had him and his fellow gleaners to hand, though. It would have been monstrously difficult to locate Cid and transport the Hannish delegation here otherwise...
I cannot wait to see what our friends from the Ironworks do with the ship!
Lyse sent a letter along with Gridania's contribution. It seems she traveled there to aid in their adamantite recovery.
Evidently, journeying to Gridania was quite the trial. As was getting into the Dalamud shard. As was reaching its depths...
I suspect she will have few kind words to say about the Allagans when next we meet.
I had no idea how massive a weight it was until he lifted it off my shoulders... But more importantly, his words were an affirmation that the path we walk is the right one.
A part of me might have been satisfied so long as my family and friends survived the Final Days. But to save this star is what we all want most, and if those same people believe that I can help see it done, who am I to say otherwise?
Come what may, I will fight for this world of ours until the very end.
We've finally managed to clear the harbor, which means the rest is in the engineers' capable hands.
Meanwhile, Father has issued to us an invitation.
As was agreed, he will reveal the means by which Hydaelyn may be contacted.
We are to meet him at Aporia when we're ready. Given the vital knowledge She holds, I suggest we leave without delay.
It transpires, however, that the Forum's method for speaking with Her is not without risks. I am curious to hear what those might entail─but regardless, be warned.
Most of those who arrived with the adamantite have offered to stay and see to any remaining tasks that need doing.
The Forum has already asked for my assistance in overseeing the process, so you needn't worry about a thing!
Thank you, Tataru. We're off to Aporia, then!
I don't want any of you getting hurt─but I do hope you'll wring as much information out of Hydaelyn as you can. For all we know, this is the one and only opportunity we'll get.
Forename. I have already shown the others inside.
You will want to speak with Clarilaine. She has the key to the lift, and can send you down after me.
