You've come all this way for the rite of succession? Oh! So this means I'm exchanging words with the future Dawnservant!
P-Please, the outcome is far from decided...but it is a possibility!
How fortunate, then, that I deal in cloaks woven from especially luxurious alpaca wool. Such a garment would look magnificent when draped over the shoulders of our budding ruler.
And a nation's ruler should dress her best for her adoring people, yes? Finery for our finest lady, that's right! Come, Third Promise, my well-stocked shelves are but a few steps away...
“Finest lady”? Heh heh, I like the sound of that...
Alright, I suppose a quick look wouldn't hurt...
Ahem. What did we just talk about?
Erenville, when did you─!?
Ah, a Shetona from far-off Xak Tural? Northern winters are bitterly cold affairs, I'm told. I cannot imagine how you survived them without a lovely warm cloak of quality alpaca wool...
No, thank you. I'm not in need of new clothes at the moment, and neither is the Third Promise. Perhaps another time.
Of course, of course! My shop door is always open!
You were saying something about not being “easily charmed”?
I was just─ <sigh>
As I mentioned previously, the Pelu people live for bringing happiness through trade. They won't cheat you or sell you defective goods.
They will, however, disarm you with their deft turns of phrase, and unwitting customers like Wuk Lamat fall prey to this affable approach time and time again.
Your only recourse is a clear and firm refusal─they won't pursue the matter should you make your disinterest plain.
A valuable insight into the minds of the Pelupelu. Let us all take Erenville's words of caution to heart.
I swear... I let her out of my sight for one moment...
Wuk Lamat is lucky to have Erenville. Everyone─royalty especially─needs a friend unafraid to chide them when the need arises.
All these houses and buildings made to Pelupelu size...and mine, too, come to think of it.
'Twould seem the Pelupelu are also partial to coffee.
Not my finest moment, I'll admit... But now that we're here, let's do what we came to do: find the elector!
Allow me to propose a strategy, then. Krile, Alisaie, and I will speak with the merchants. Wuk Lamat, you and Erenville might try approaching travelers and passersby.
Forename, pray investigate any of the other establishments which catch your eye. Should we learn aught of use, let us relay it to the Third Promise.
