I... I...
Return... I must...return...
Why... Why... Why!?
Home... I want... I need...
You mustn't...touch...
In cerulean halls...find me...
In cerulean halls...find me...
Apologies. I have been preoccupied for quite some time, and am...out of practice at conversation...
Ever since this moon was created by Hydaelyn, I have served as...an integral part. I am the watcher.
I am responsible for the prisoner and the devices that hold Him fast.
Zodiark Himself. A projection of the moon's core.
Though rent asunder by Hydaelyn, He grows more powerful with every Rejoining. Seven there have been. Seven too many...
And yet, for all His servants' machinations, He remains incomplete. The fallen are beyond salvation.
No attempt would be made to free Zodiark. Not until He is whole once more.
But someone has taken action. The shackles that hold Him nearly shattered.
Six locks to his gaol, great and grand.
Gargantuan swords driven deep. Brands to bind Zodiark forevermore.
Five were destroyed by his would-be liberator. One of these I have restored.
I strive to mend the remaining four, but my efforts are being impeded...
Souls sacrificed to summon Zodiark, their manifestation consequence of the waning seal.
They labor in opposition to my work. They must be expelled for the preservation of all.
What is right and good? Ask a thousand souls and receive a thousand answers. I offer none.
Of that I have no doubt. You are Her chosen.
I am the watcher and the gaoler. I am not the judge.
Know this. Hydaelyn commands the forces of stasis, and this moon is the product of such power.
So long as Zodiark remains imprisoned in this place, no more sacrifices will be made in His name. Nor will those souls rendered up in His name fade into oblivion.
Go. Meet with these wandering spirits. Do what you think is right.
You must confront those lost souls, yes, but you need not expel them by might of arms...
A feather-touch, a firm word─simple methods may send them away, faint echoes as they are.
Ware the strength of sentiment that drives them, however. Emotions that do not fade even with the passage of centuries...
And make haste. Though yet distant, unwelcome guests draw closer...
Of the six elemental brands, only those of levin and wind are intact.
If the other brands are not reforged, Zodiark may yet be freed.
Find the spirits of the sacrificed, and do what must be done...
