Hah hah hah! Yes, more mortals come to slaughter!
Hah hah hah! Yes, more mortals come to slaughter!
It is time to feast!
Just warming up!
My strength is spent...
I'll only get in your way.
Chin up! We'll get through this together!
Split up!
Stay sharp!
Watch out!
Everyone all right?
Not finished yet!
I will enjoy draining your aether, watching as the life dims in your eyes.
I will enjoy draining your aether, watching as the life dims in your eyes.
We must weather this together!
<pant> <pant>
I will repay this debt.
Resistance is futile!
Resistance is futile!
There is no escape!
If you would deny me my feast, then begone! To ashes with you!
If you would deny me my feast, then begone! To ashes with you!
Do not let them get away!
This has gone on long enough!
I will finish it. Now!
Let's buy her some time!
Let's buy her some time!
Cover me.
I am your end!
Well done!
No! NO! Why won't you die!?
You did well to find me out here.
We have Jullus to thank for that. He was quite worried when he called.
No, if it was not for you and the others, I...
Well, let's not fuss over details. We should return to Tertium─can you make it that far?
I think so.
Zero! Are you all right?
Well enough. No voidsent struck here, did they?
No, and there weren't any more casualties thanks to you.
What are you doing?
You'll have no debts to repay, if that's what you're worried about.
If anything, I owe you a week's worth of buuz.
Hmph.
I've also received word that the transport arrived safely at Camp Broken Glass. They send their thanks to the “woman in black.”
...I'm fine. I just need rest.
For a mercy, there appears to have been no casualties in Tertium or elsewhere.
Zero's convalescing aboard the train. Jullus has already given her something to eat, so I suppose all we can do is wait.
I can't help but wonder, though... What possessed her to go and fight all those voidsent on her own? Not that I know the going rate for such things, but I doubt one buuz would suffice. I think someone has been a bad influence on her.
Oh, I'm just joking. Or am I?
In any case, many people owe her their lives. I'll be sure to thank her when she's back on her feet.
Thank goodness we found Zero when we did.
As Alisaie said, many people owe Zero their lives.
This is not her world, nor her battle to fight, yet she risked life and limb for us nonetheless. That will not be soon forgotten.
Now then, I expect that our friends will return soon. Once everyone has gathered, we can take stock of the situation.
We've naught to do but wait for the others. They should not be much longer.
Perhaps you should have a rest too.
Apologies for the delay. I've finished replenishing my aether.
Full glad am I to hear it. We must thank you again, Zero.
Indeed, many are still alive because of you. Those soldiers not least of all.
...How fared you? Better than I did, by all accounts.
We had to contend with our fair share of voidsent en route to the snowcraft, but we had the benefit of numbers.
With their help, we quickly dispatched all the voidsent that came our way. Thankfully, they stay dead in our world.
We were trying to decide what to do next when we received word about the transport.
Which is how Alisaie, Forename, and I came to find you.
While the immediate threat has been addressed, we cannot rest easy yet. For voidsent to appear in such numbers, we must assume that a voidgate has indeed been opened nearby.
Meaning more of them can come through at their leisure.
It seems the best course of action is to investigate Lapis Manalis, as you intend. What is the state of the snowcraft?
Nearly operational, I believe. Vrtra is with the engineer, who is hard at work as we speak. Why don't we join them in Cerulea Ingens?
Finally, a chance to go on the offensive!
...I would join you as well.
I wouldn't dream of refusing you. But...what did you have in mind for payment?
Payment won't be necessary.
I will do this because...I want to.
You have...kindled something within me. A compulsion─a desire to act─that has been burning since you came to my aid out in the snow.
I do not understand it, but I wish to, and to that end I will heed it. Then perhaps I'll understand your answer.
I would also like to join you in tracing the voidsent to their origin. Though that would mean neglecting my duties here...
Don't worry about us. Between my people and the contingent, we can keep things running well enough. Just find where the voidsent are coming from, and see that they stop.
Take care, Zero.
I will.
'Tis good to see you all safe and well. The craft stands ready, I am pleased to say. Our engineer friend has worked tirelessly, his zeal a match for any of my alchemists.
Vrtra insisted on staying behind to guard the snowcraft. He's anxious to get up that mountain, and understandably so.
“Mammoth” is an apt name for the craft. Its prodigious size made defending it difficult, but it came through unscathed.
To have to go to such lengths to traverse a single mountain... The people of this land do not have easy lives.
I'm glad the engineer is safe. I'd never forgive myself if something had happened to him on our account.
For the sake of our friends, I pray we succeed in our mission.
The voidgate is of course our main objective, but if we can also find useful salvage, then all the better.
There you are! Your timing couldn't be better.
Thanks to Varshahn's help, I've managed to finish the repairs faster than I anticipated. The mammoth's ready for the snow once more!
You can leave the piloting to me, too. It'd be my pleasure to get you to where you need to go!
You are too kind. Thank you.
Let's be on our way then, shall we?
Just say the word and we're off.
As we hopefully demonstrated, we're still capable of holding our own in battle. Which is to say, please don't hesitate to rely on us.
When we find whoever's responsible for unleashing the voidsent, I'm going to give them a piece of my mind!
Once aboard the mammoth, we will all need to change into attire more suitable for combat.
It can be no coincidence that a voidgate has opened where Vrtra sensed his sister. In all likelihood, something is in the offing, and we must be prepared.
If there is indeed a voidgate, then there will be voidsent, and not merely lesser ones.
Be on your guard for all manner of threats.
I don't make a habit of fighting atop magitek, but it shouldn't be any more difficult than doing so astride a dragon. I welcome the change of pace.
Come, Forename. Let us find the truth of my sister's aura!
Careful up there─you're not like to see much through the snow.
The wildlife here is certainly bold.
How bothersome...
It seems we were right to ride atop the snowcraft.
Indeed. Let us hold nothing back.
