Death to Nidhogg! Death to Nidhogg!Death to Nidhogg! Death to Nidhogg!Death to Nidhogg! Death to Nidhogg!
There they go, the last of the guests. Having come hither with hope in their hearts, they depart with hatred and bloodlust...
Until the moment I saw him strike, I still held some small hope that what you had seen in Azys Lla was...an illusion, perhaps. But he acted without hesitation...as did Ser Aymeric.
For a mercy, Vidofnir's wound was not mortal, or so Lucia tells me. The dragon was spirited away to Anyx Trine to receive care from her brethren. We can but hope her recovery is swift.
...But such was surely Nidhogg's intent. To deliver a proclamation not only to the children of Thordan, but to his kindred. “War is coming, and ye who do not stand with us stand apart.”
She was an example─a message to her brood. Another instrument of his vengeance...like Estinien.
When I said I wished to speak with you after the conference, I confess I envisaged rather happier circumstances. If anything, however, this latest tragedy makes the need more pressing. There are things I must say.
Not to the Warrior of Light, or even my fellow Scion, but...to you, Forename. My friend.
But not here, no...
Ah, but of course. The intercessory in Camp Dragonhead is still open to us. Let us go there.
Forgive me. That took longer than expected.
...You seem puzzled. Oh, these? I thought something warming might not go amiss.
It was not all that long ago that we sat here, you and I. In our very own “Falling Snows,” as Lord Haurchefant called it.
I still struggle to believe he has gone. And Ysayle too... I had such hopes for her...
Master Matoya asked me what it was all for. Why we fight...and why we die.
Were I still commander of the Braves, I would doubtless have replied, “For the future of Eorzea,” but I am not that man. Not anymore.
I needed a new answer. One that I could live with. And when I saw Estinien at the ceremony, I knew at last what it was.
I do not want to be a man who sacrifices his friends and family for a cause. I want to fight for Estinien─and I want to save him.
When Nidhogg leads the Horde into battle, Ser Aymeric and his forces will do what they believe must be done.
That is their choice to make. Yet even if Ser Aymeric is willing to forsake Estinien, I am not.
We must fight for him, for he is our friend and ally. We may struggle, we may fail, but we must try.
We will. I know we will.
Lord Haurchefant would be proud. I knew you would understand! Together, we will surely find a way.
Forgive me. I say these things to you in full knowledge of the fact that you have never yet given up on a friend. We will find a way. I know we will.
Thank you, Forename. It is unfair of me to unburden myself in this manner, time after time, but I am glad that you permit me nonetheless. You are my true friend and ally.
Though not all of our fellow Scions will support our stance on Estinien, I have faith that we will win them over in due course. Such is the infectious power of hope.
Right. That is quite enough solemn introspection for one night. I think we would both benefit from some time in the company of Tataru. She stays for us at Fortemps Manor. Let us not keep her waiting any longer.
Yet again we walk an all-too-familiar path. I am reminded of when we first came to this manor.
Lost and uncertain, we were granted succor in our hour of need. We were saved─and now it is our turn to return the favor!
Hear, hear! Let no one say that the Scions do not repay their debts!
After all, what kind of people would we be if we forsook our friends? If we stopped looking for Yda and Papalymo, or if we gave up hope of bringing Minfilia back?
Though she knew it would cost her dearly, Minfilia reached out to us to deliver a message. She believed it was imperative that we understand the true nature of this star─of the rift between Zodiark and Hydaelyn, and of the Ascians' aspirations.
But for all that has been revealed, I cannot shake the suspicion that there is much we have yet to learn...
In any event, I think it time we step back from the fray and carefully consider our next course of action. It will not be easy to turn this tragedy to triumph, but we will find a way. We will. We will.
Of all the ways for it to end.
Even before his transformation, I could feel the wyrm's hatred swirling about Estinien. The terrible, all-consuming rage...
Enough to fuel a thousand-year quest for vengeance. It was all I could do not to run away screaming.
But Ishgardians─nay, all Eorzeans─are made of sterner stuff. They face danger and death on a daily basis, and understand what it takes to win a war.
Think not too deeply on Master Matoya's words. Her intent was but to steel our resolve.
That, and to remind us to look beyond these passing conflicts to trials greater still─to the truth which hides at the heart of this world.
So that's your aim, is it?
You disapprove?
Not at all! I believe it's traditional for the student to follow in the footsteps of the master. And you are so very alike.
Change─that great, inexorable wave─was upon us, and soon all of Ishgard would bend to its will.
For all our sins, for all our scars, the future for which we had long yearned was at last within our grasp.
But it would be bought at a heavy price.
For in those twilight hours did Nidhogg cry out for vengeance, and his brethren raise their voices for the final chorus of the Dragonsong War.
For in those twilight hours did Nidhogg cry out for vengeance, and his brethren raise their voices for the final chorus of the Dragonsong War.
Caution, Yda─that is all I ask! Do not be so eager to place your faith in them. Not until we know more.
Ah, Mistress Surname! It is well that you are here. You are wanted within.
I believe Master Alphinaud wishes a word with you...
Ah, Forename, there you are. Have you a moment? There is something I would fain discuss.
I must ask you to recall the events which unfolded at the peace conference, though I daresay you would sooner forget them.
My mind returns again and again to the moment when Nidhogg appeared before the crowd in the guise of Estinien. It was a sight to chill the soul─but one which gave me reason to hope that our friend might not be beyond salvation. When you described his fateful transformation at Azys Lla, I feared him lost forever, but the mere fact that some semblance of his former self endures must surely count for something. Alas, I have no evidence to support this impression...
Thus did I turn to Y'shtola and Krile for a more empirical appraisal─and full glad am I that I did, for it would seem they have some observations of their own to share.
The ladies have saved us a table at the Forgotten Knight. Shall we go?
Excellent. Let us not keep our honored colleagues waiting.
We have kept you waiting overlong, I fear...
Not to worry, Alphinaud. We had some rather fine mulled wine to keep us company. Truth be told, you could have delayed your arrival a few moments more...
Gibrillont got the spicing just right this time. His latest batch is not only delicious and warming, but soothing to the humours!
Indeed. But 'twas not to soothe our humours that we gathered here.
Ah, no─quite right. The matter of that poor dragoon...
You have discovered something─a means to save him?
Let us not jump to conclusions, shall we? Assess the facts presented, then make an educated analysis, as you were taught.
Pray cast your mind back to the moment of Estinien's transformation. Do you recall how you described it to us?
You spoke of the sudden pangs which racked his body when he took up both of Nidhogg's eyes─and of how his form was twisted thereafter into a shadowy semblance of the great wyrm.
When he appeared at Falcon's Nest, the wyrm's eyes were fused to his mail.
Would that only his armor had been corrupted... Snaking forth from the eyes, I descried dark tendrils which entangled his very being. His aether has been all but smothered.
Then he is lost to us forever?
What did I just say about jumping to conclusions!? Y'shtola clearly stated “all but smothered.”
As I later discovered, her impression matched my own. Though Nidhogg's presence filled my mind's eye, beneath his seething aura, I sensed the merest hint of something else.
And after listening to Y'shtola's observations, I became more certain of my suspicion: that the “something else” I had sensed was, in fact, the trace of a different will, submerged in the sea of Nidhogg's rage.
You mean...
Yes. 'Tis like that Estinien's spirit yet lingers.
Can we not wrest him from Nidhogg's grasp, then!? Tear the eyes from the armor!?
We know not if that would serve to separate wyrm's soul from man's. None have ever attempted such a feat.
Should it offer even the faintest hope of success, then by the gods, I shall be the first to try.
Alphinaud...
By all means, hold fast to your hope. But be mindful of the dangers.
Even should you succeed in excising the eyes from the dragoon's mail, we have no way of knowing if your friend's soul would survive so violent a separation. And that is to say nothing of the possibility that his would-be savior might become Nidhogg's next host.
But what other choice remains to us? Should the opportunity present itself, I will tear those foul orbs from Estinien's armor and trust in the resilience of his soul─even at the risk of mine own!
Ah! I've found you at last!
A messenger of the Temple Knights came to the manor some few hours past. The lord commander humbly requests the company of the Warrior of Light and Master Alphinaud.
Ser Aymeric would speak with us? Very well. Thank you, Honoroit.
'Twould seem duty calls. Pray see to yours, and we shall return to ours.
Thank you, Y'shtola, Krile. Your words have given me hope where there was none.
Come then. Ser Aymeric awaits.
Alphinaud is allowing his feelings for this dragoon to cloud his thoughts. I worry he may do something rash. Keep an eye on him, would you?
They think more of their friend's deliverance than their foe's defeat... But will history commend their fealty or condemn their folly?
The conference held at Falcon's Nest was to be a celebration of the reconciliation 'twixt man and dragon.
But the lingering shade of Nidhogg, clad in the flesh of the Azure Dragoon, did mark the occasion by spilling the blood of his own kind.
A timely atrocity to remind the children of Ishgard that the Dragonsong War was far from over...
And when fear gave way to fury, the call to arms rang out anew: “Death to Nidhogg! Death to Nidhogg!”
What news has Ser Aymeric to share with us, I wonder...?
Hmmm... Might Ser Aymeric perchance have received word of a Dravanian advance?
...Or mayhap they have located Esti─ That is to say, mayhap Nidhogg has been found!
Come! I would hear what the lord commander has to say!
My friends, I thank you for coming.
You have had news of Nidhogg?
Alas, not. Our scouts range far and wide, but they have as yet found no trace of the great wyrm.
We dispatched an elite unit of dragoons to reconnoiter the Churning Mists, but even they returned empty-handed.
A pity...
Fear not, Alphinaud─we shall see the wyrm again soon enough. His words at Falcon's Nest attest to that.
Indeed, he is like to come sooner than we would wish.
I assume Ishgard's defenses are being bolstered as we speak?
With all haste. I mean to call upon every able-bodied warrior at our disposal, from the knights of the four houses to the men and women of the watch.
But I did not summon you to discuss strategy.
What then would you have of us, my lord?
I will speak plain: now that Nidhogg is possessed of both of his eyes, no mortal force we can muster will repel him. That being the case, we must needs recruit an ally of equal strength...
You speak of Hraesvelgr!?
I do. To whom else could we turn?
That he is Nidhogg's equal I do not deny. Nor can I name another. But convincing the reclusive creature to do battle with his own brood-brother will be... How shall I put this?
It will be no small undertaking, yes. Estinien's report was most particular about Hraesvelgr's unwillingness to involve himself in the affairs of men.
But much has changed since your visit to Sohm Al, and if there is even a chance that the dragon may be swayed, I must plead our case. Whatever price the dragon asks of me, I shall pay it─such was my oath to defend the people of Ishgard.
Come what may, my friends, the battle with Nidhogg will mark the end of my tenure as the acting head of church and state. Will you help me discharge this final duty?
We will, my lord─though I fear our involvement offers no guarantee of success.
Come, then─we will depart at your leisure.
Thank you. Both of you.
The city is yours, First Commander.
My lord. We shall pray for your swift return.
It grieves me to impose upon you in this manner, but you of all people understand the threat we now face.
It is no imposition, Ser Aymeric─to Forename and I, Ishgard is as a second home.
After the many battles we have fought and the bonds we have forged, the plight of your nation has become our own. If there is aught that we can do to aid in its salvation, then pray impose all you must.
You are true friends...
Shall we be about our task, then? We have no way of knowing when Nidhogg's shade will strike, but we must assume that time is not our ally.
Indeed. With that in mind, I have taken the liberty of dispatching a messenger to inform Mistress Tataru that you will be escorting me to Sohm Al. I confess, I did not provide the exact details of our destination, as they are as yet unknown to me...
We will summon Hraesvelgr at Zenith in the Churning Mists. Ere we begin our ascent, however, I think it best that we pay a visit to Anyx Trine.
You seek an advantage in the coming negotiations?
I do. I would consult with Vidofnir.
I propose this in part out of concern for her condition. Were she to succumb to her wounds, it could have grave consequences for our alliance. That apart, she may be able to provide insight into her sire's current state of mind.
Well reasoned. To the Dravanian forelands, then.
Ah, 'tis the warrior of warriors and her companions. What bringeth you to mine abode?
Pray forgive us for disturbing your recuperation, Vidofnir. I hope your wound does not pain you overmuch...
Didst thou imagine me close to death? The thrust was deep, but not mortal. I will heal in time.
Full glad am I to hear it. You were the guest of honor at our conference, and we failed in our duty of protection. On behalf of Ishgard, I apologize unreservedly.
...I am a dragon full-grown, and thou thought to protect me, mortal? I was tempered by the fires of battle ere thy great-grandsire learned to crawl.
Thy words do remind me of a knight whom I called friend some thousand years past. He swore to defend me from harm and hardship...
Would that we could return to that era of peace, when man and dragon knew such comradeship.
Would that our every effort to do so were not undone by ancient rancor...
For a truth, there can be no peace while Nidhogg's shade yet lingereth.
Ah, 'tis the warrior of warriors and her companions. What bringeth you to mine abode?
Pray forgive us for disturbing your recuperation, Vidofnir. I hope your wound does not pain you overmuch...
Didst thou imagine me close to death? The thrust was deep, but not mortal. I will heal in time.
Full glad am I to hear it. You were the guest of honor at our conference, and we failed in our duty of protection. On behalf of Ishgard, I apologize unreservedly.
...I am a dragon full-grown, and thou thought to protect me, mortal? I was tempered by the fires of battle ere thy great-grandsire learned to crawl.
Thy words do remind me of a knight whom I called friend some thousand years past. He swore to defend me from harm and hardship...
Would that we could return to that era of peace, when man and dragon knew such comradeship.
Would that our every effort to do so were not undone by ancient rancor...
For a truth, there can be no peace while Nidhogg's shade yet lingereth.
Though I expected no better answer from Vidofnir, I take little pleasure from having been proven right. 'Twould seem that our presence at Zenith will be every bit as unwelcome as I had anticipated. But what is the ire of one great wyrm to a trio of self-confessed fools such as ourselves?Let us begin our ascent.
After you, Master Alphinaud.
Scout ahead if you wish, Forename. We shall join you outside Moghome!
I had heard tales of the world above the clouds, but never did I dream...One's mind paints a pale picture of its majesty.
Few live to see such wonders. I am reminded of my first visit to this peak, when Estinien and Ysayle yet walked at our side...
Kupopo? Is that you, Forename?
Ah, if it isn't Mog... Mog...uh...
Don't tell me you've forgotten my name, kupo!? After all we've been through together!
But at least you remember me!You...you do remember me, don't you, Forename?
H-How could you mistake me for that overstuffed throne-warmer!? I'm Moghan! The courageous moogle who guided you to Zenith, kupo!
Phew! You seemed a bit hesitant for a moment there! But I'm sure you were just fondly recalling the time we camped near Zenith, right, kupo?
...I see, kupo. Then I suppose our time around the campfire meant less to you than I thought it did. It's “Moghan,” by the way... <sniff>
But putting our shared history to one side, what brings you and your friends to Moghome, kupo?
Ah, another audience with old Hraesvelgr...
Well, I hope you've brought the horn, kupo! With the winds as gentle as they are, a good loud toot should reach the great wyrm's ears easily enough!
That is good to hear, Moghan─thank you. We had best press on to Zenith, while the winds are in our favor.
Now that was unexpected, kupo. Chieftain Moglin will want to hear about this!
You dare summon me again, mortals?
Great Hraesvelgr, 'tis not lightly that we beg this audience. Pray hearken to our words, for they concern the future of man and dragon both.
Greetings, Hraesvelgr. I am Aymeric de Borel, acting ruler of the nation of Ishgard.
I am come before you to parley on behalf of my people.
...To parley? Thinkest thou thy purpose unclear to me? Thou art come to beg mine aid in the battle against the shade of my brood-brother.
You...foresaw mine intent.
I but read that which is writ plain in thine eyes. Would that thou had wit enough to scry the answer in mine.
My beloved Shiva did once build a bridge 'twixt man and dragon─a bridge which thy treacherous forefathers saw fit to tear down, as thou well knowest.
Thinkest thou Nidhogg was alone in despairing at the murder of our brood-sister? Thinkest thou mine own soul did not cry out for vengeance? Know then that upon that accursed day, my heart did wither in my breast, and thy kind become unto me the harbingers of despair.
'Tis only Shiva's gentle dream that preventeth me from flying at Nidhogg's shoulder. Be grateful that I swore to abjure aggression ere I consumed her.
I permit my children to offer or deny thee aid as they see fit; to warn thy people of my brood-brother's coming. That thou wouldst dare ask more of me but affirmeth thine incurable arrogance.
We understand that in your despair at man's betrayal, you seek only the refuge of solitude.
But despite your protestations of spent faith, do you not still nurture the smallest flame of hope?
Perceivest thou such light in the dusk of mine existence?
I do. If you claim I see falsely, then tell me: why did you consent to bear Ysayle upon your back?
Ysayle... Piteous, deluded Ysayle. The child did lament her past sins, and sought to balance the scales with her remaining days. 'Twas her unquenchable passion, so alike to that of my beloved, which did spur me into flight.
And for mine own part, I would countenance no longer the hands of evil men to use my brood-brother's eye for ill.
So you do distinguish between those who acknowledge and repent their sins, and those who perpetuate them. Interesting.
It seems to me that you have not, in fact, lost faith in mankind as a whole. Rather, you weigh our respective merits by how we allow the past to influence our future.
Spare me thine idle sophistry. Even were there a mote of truth in thy reasoning, what of it? Wouldst thou have me slay mine own sibling to save a city of mortals?
Should we suffer ties of blood to bind our hands then? Nay. If the crime is one of unconscionable evil, we must needs condemn it─even should the transgressor be our closest kin.
When my father corrupted himself and his followers with the power of a primal, I beseeched the Warrior of Light to slay him─an act alike to patricide.
That he did not die by my hand matters little─if anything, it heaps greater disgrace upon my name. But had my father not fallen, he would have drawn countless thousands into a holy war of hellish proportions─which I hold the greater crime. Thus did I order his execution, sparing the lives of my people and yours.
Alas, your brother wyrm now prepares to murder those whom I sought to spare. What is more, he has taken my comrade's body for his own─but if I must slay my dearest friend to defeat my direst foe, I will not flinch from my duty!
Thou wouldst strike down thy friend and, by example of thy righteousness, persuade me to break mine oath and kill my kindred?
Heed me, my child. The servants of Hydaelyn envision a different outcome. They intend salvation not only for Ishgard, but for the doomed dragonslayer as well.
Believest thou this shade to be Nidhogg returned? Is it not merely a manifestation of his vengeance─the shadow cast by thy brood-brother's rage? I would not command thee, but ponder well thy course lest it lead thee unto greater remorse...
Nidhogg's transformation into rage incarnate is, in part, of mine own doing. I rendered unto him mine eye, and empowered his revenge thereby... But 'tis the purity of my brood-brother's wrath that lendeth him his all-surpassing might.
Thou wishest to rescue the dragoon from his fate along with all the rest? I do begin to see why Ysayle entrusted her hope unto thee. Thy purpose is pure. ...But so too is my brood-brother's wrath, and 'tis that which lendeth him his all-surpassing might.
What, no words for me, warrior? I take it thou art resolved to act whether I aid thee or no... Ha! I do admire thy determination.
Thou wishest to rescue the dragoon from his fate along with all the rest? I do begin to see why Ysayle entrusted her hope unto thee. Thy purpose is pure. ...But so too is my brood-brother's wrath, and 'tis that which lendeth him his all-surpassing might.
Hast thou the strength of will to stand against so terrible a shadow, I wonder? 'Twould seem I must put thee and thy companions to the proof.
I shall await thee in the ruins wherein Ratatoskr once dwelled. Heed well the words of my children, and hasten thee to the place of thy trial!
I believe I spied a wyvern landing just outside the palace. It is doubtless one of the “children” of whom Hraesvelgr spoke.
Come, my friends: let us not keep our escort waiting.
