Glory... Glory... Glory...be...
The embodiment of Garlemald's hopes and dreams, eh?
No one would wish for such an abomination...
The orchestrators of this chaos are nowhere to be seen.
Where are Zenos and Fandaniel?
What doth lie within these countless vials?
How could love for one's nation give rise to such a monstrosity?
Agony made flesh...
Farewell, Varis. May the gods have mercy on your soul.
Come. The other two await.
This madness ends here!
Oh hush. This is the best part...
Enough!
O mighty Zodiark, awaken from your slumber and descend!
Some manner of magical defense!?
Krile! But how!?
The shackles that bind my adversary will not be so easily broken!
Hydaelyn... Feeble relic of a forgotten age...
Hark! Victory...is mine!
No more aether... And I was so close!
My lord, a slight change of plans. We shall travel to the moon and break this wretched barrier ourselves!
Whatever it takes.
What was that!?
The final order issued by Anima to the tempered thralls.
“Should the Empire fall, the world must share her fate.”
Of course, Father lacked the conviction to give such a command. The abomination born of his flesh was but a puppet─and I the puppeteer.
You madman! You monster!
There's a funny joy in watching your flailing attempts to fight the inevitable. You're all going to die and are powerless to prevent it.
We really must be on our way. You're welcome to give chase, provided you are content to leave comrade and tempered alike to die screaming.
I have asked too much of this child. Tend to her.
The last brand at Mare Lamentorum is yet unbroken. Zodiark remains bound.
I have shifted the flow of aether and sent the enemy far from their destination.
Now, I shall divert it once more. An ally awaits, and I will deliver you unto him.
Seek his aid. Restore the seal. Zodiark must not be set free...
The tempered are running wild. Not only those at the tower, but those back at the camp.
The others are doing their best to contain them, but the situation is growing beyond our control.
Leave them to die, or give up the chase. Just like Fandaniel said...
You're...you're going alone!?
You have our trust and our faith. I pray we have yours.
Our friends and the tempered need our help. We will save as many as we can─I swear!
Once we have matters well in hand, we will join you on the moon. Until then, be careful. There's no telling what you'll find.
Stand there for just a moment, please.
...A prayer for good luck. Now you can't possibly fail!
We've no time for worrying over what's done. Let's go.
We're moving out to rendezvous with the remainder of the contingent. Leave everything here to us.
...
She channeled a dangerous amount of aether. And that's to say nothing of the teleportation magick she must have used to get here.
Yet Krile and Hydaelyn both were clearly willing to take the risk. Hmm.
Fear not for Krile. Go forth...and return, I prithee.
As I suspected...
If all of the tempered are affected, Jullus and his comrades likely put up quite the struggle.
We'll find a way to save them─we must. I only pray we are not too late.
In the meantime...may the Twelve carry you to victory.
I have faith in you. Now and always.
I'm the last person who should be scolding others for using dangerous teleportation magicks. But if that is indeed how Krile reached us in time, I do wish Hydaelyn had taken a little more care...
Regardless, 'tis nothing Urianger and I cannot put right.
My apologies─I was lost in thought. This device is of Allagan design, which leads me to think I was right about Fandaniel.
No matter what he claims, he still has an attachment to the trappings of his past...
Whether knowing this will make your path forward clearer, I cannot say, but bear it in mind.
But let us turn to the task at hand. As Hydaelyn said, the flow of aether will transport you to Mare Lamentorum.
We must hope this ally of Hers can provide you with the necessary assistance to restore the seal before Zenos and Fandaniel arrive to stop you.
It seems we are ever one step behind, but I have faith that you'll make up the difference.
Know that whatever awaits, our prayers are with you. Now go─beyond the sky!
Spare a glance our way from on high, will you? We shall not waver, knowing that you're counting on us.
Long, long before Dalamud was forged to imprison an elder primal...
The eldest of them all—savior of the star—was sealed within a moon of His own.
Souls sacrificed to grant Him life still slumber and dream of the day He and we will be made whole.
Here He waits, in this cold, barren place. His cradle and His grave.
Silent lamentations and prayers of hope echo soundlessly to a sundered star, adrift and alone.
