If Hatching-tide is even half as thrilling as this show, I'd best catch the next airship to Gridania!
Heh, all's well that ends well. The little ladies get a great show, and Hatching-tide gets more egg seekers.
Their smiles are like so many flowers in full bloom! Peatie will be the talk of Ul'dah for moons to come.
That she will, that she will. I have to thank you, Miss Aliapoh, for givin' us both the chance to bring a little brightness to so many lives.
We hope you enjoy yourselves!
Little Ladies' Day is far from over!
Things are just heating up!
I've left Nonotta in charge of goings-on in Gridania. Oh, would that she could see my dream come alive!
I reckon Peatie had the most fun out of everyone here.
Grrr! Graaarrr!
Grrr! Graaarrr!
Thank you, Peatie, for bringing joy to the citizens of Ul'dah─especially its little ladies!
That was better than I could have imagined. Hatching-tide and Little Ladies' Day both will be remembered as the highlights of the year!
Couldn't have done it without your help, Forename. We'll both be lookin' back on this experience with fondness for the rest of our lives.
Speakin' of which...I've got to thinkin' maybe it's time I leave this performance business behind me, and let Peatie spread her wings. I think she'd be more than happy by your side, if you'll have her.
As for me, I have it in mind to find a place to settle down and rest these old bones.
I'd hate to tie Peatie down just when she's found her passion. If you bring her along on your adventures, she'll be able to deliver smiles to corners of the world I've only heard tales of.
Can't deny I already feel the tendrils of loneliness tuggin' at my heart, but they'll lose their grip so long as I know Peatie's with you.
I look forward to hearin' of her exploits as I while the days away.
I don't mean to be rude, but I am required in Gridania. Nonotta must know just how perfectly my dream manifested!
Heh, give the lass our regards, eh? I'll stay here in Ul'dah until the festivities end─and who knows, maybe longer.
And with that, allow me to thank you personally, Forename. No princess in all the realm could have asked for a more devoted seneschal.
And that includes Peatie. Seeing you dote upon her so dutifully reminded me why I volunteered for this position in the first place.
Although Peatie's show has concluded, Little Ladies' Day has not! Pray enjoy all that we have prepared.
And don't be a stranger in Gridania, either!
The crowd is as lively as I've ever seen it! Would that Peatie could be our star every year!
I know you and Peatie'll have adventures wilder than any I could ever imagine. Make sure to come visit and regale me with your tales, eh?
Ah, you came after all! As you can see, the citizens cannot get enough of Hatching-tide. Go on and enjoy yourself!
An eggcellent and eggciting Hatching-tide to you, Forename! We hope you enjoy all that we've prepared this year!
