There is a tome that holds a damning secret pertaining to the Autumn War. Should you desire it, send your most capable to Nine Ivies. I will be waiting.
...The war between Gridania and Ala Mhigo? But that ended a hundred years ago. I labor to imagine what secret could exist that should be so damning even now. Might this not be an ill-conceived prank, Commander?
Our leadership believes it likely, to be sure, but it is not a risk they are willing to take. Nay, not with the winds of public sentiment blowing as they are.
You all know that our order is involved in the Alliance's campaign to liberate Ala Mhigo.
Well, there are those among the citizenry that disapprove, a small but determined faction that refuses to forget the wrongs of a century past. They still view Ala Mhigo as the enemy, and ardently oppose our reaching out a hand of succor.
Naught potentially incendiary can be allowed to stoke the people's discontent, and we must move quickly. Your mission is to make contact with the letter's sender and ascertain the nature of the secret.
...You call that a mission? A bloody errand, more like. Couldn't be arsed to handle it yourselves, so you foist it on the eager new unit.
And if the secret proves inconvenient for Gridania, what then? Will you sweep it under the rug, along with all our hard work?
Guydelot, mind your tongue! You are addressing a superior officer!
Ah, so you are the famous Guydelot. Worry not, my friend. Whatever the secret turns out to be, I give you my personal assurance that you and yours will receive due credit for its discovery.
That's good enough for me. It's been forever since me and Forename last performed together, and I just want to enjoy the moment─no complicating factors, you know?
The Autumn War is an emotional subject for Gridanians, the older generation especially. And for us bards, it is also notable for the involvement of singing archers.
In the course of your mission, I daresay there will be much to reflect upon and many opportunities to grow. I wish the three of you the best of luck.
Without further ado, let us make haste to Nine Ivies...before Guydelot can exercise any more indiscretion.
