But we'll be fine, won't we? Even if the system no longer erases our memory of the departed, the regulators continue to function!
I shan't go before my time. Growing old and passing peacefully with the help of the ushers is only natural!
You may think so, but how are we to know? We have no memory of those who have gone. More may have met violent deaths than passed from old age, and we would be blissfully unaware!
It could happen to you or me─to any of us!
Then what are we to do? Spend every waking moment thinking only of how we might die?
With time, I had hoped that they'd be able to adjust to their new situation...but it's only gotten worse.
Look, it's Queen Sphene!
What!?
Help, Queen Sphene! The grown-ups are really upset, and I don't know what to do!
I see that you are as kind-hearted as ever, Nico. Never fear─I'm here to set things aright!
I don't understand. Sphene is gone...forever...
You there, Gossan! You were the queen's aide, weren't you?
What's the meaning of this?
Begging your pardon, Vow of Resolve...
But Her Majesty Queen Sphene is paying visit to her people, as is her wont.
What are you talking about!?
Sphene is dead! You officiated the funeral yourself!
We all placed flowers to mourn her passing!
A funeral...? For Her Majesty?
What a curious jest. You know full well that ceremony was to commemorate those lives lost during the attack of Alexandria.
Her Majesty walks among her people that she might support them in this most trying of times. Surely that is not cause for consternation?
Your Majesty, won't you free us from these terrible memories of the departed?
This is no way to live─not for us nor our children...
...I wish that I could. Truly, I do. But with Living Memory shut down, even I cannot restore the system that once afforded us that comfort.
You needn't fret, however. I have prepared an alternate solution.
All of us shall be made Endless!
I have created a new system that allows you to transplant your memories directly into an aetherial vessel─one not reliant upon soul cells.
This way, you need never again fear death. You may live as you please─and for as long as you like!
Our stores of aether are, at present, not sufficient to provide this boon to everyone...
But some of you received neo regulators for the funeral ceremony, did you not?
And there are still more we have yet to distribute. Five thousand in all!
One day soon, those with neo regulators will be called to join the Endless, and thence be free of suffering forevermore!
But...only five thousand of us?
You vidraal!
The real Sphene would never be content to save only some of her people!
Who are you!?
I am Sphene, the Queen of Reason.
Let's return to the Backroom. I need to calm down...and then we'll talk.
You saw Sphene with your own eyes, then? So it wasn't someone else...
We've heard about the Queen of Reason's proclamation. The rumors spread through the district like wildfire.
Queen Sphene has returned? How?
Seriously, what was that!?
Sphene was erased. If she's back, then are the Endless...?
Without the Meso Terminal, how does she propose to create new Endless? We must contact Y'shtola as soon as possible.
There's naught to report yet, but we have all eyes and ears out in Everkeep and Heritage Found.
We only caught the proclamation from a distance, but I can tell you that the message about neo regulators was received with utmost clarity.
It couldn't have been Sphene. She should've been destroyed when the Meso Terminal shut down...
...Without a single Alexandrian to bear witness. Presented with an identical figure claiming to be their beloved queen, 'tis no surprise that they would choose to believe she's alive.
What is troubling, however, is their denial that the funeral was held in her honor. 'Tis as if their memories have been erased...
Given that the members of Oblivion remain unaffected, that was likely the work of the regulators. But by whose design?
Someone smart enough to play at being the Queen of Reason. In that guise, even if some suspect deception, most of Alexandria will be on her side.
We need to find out who she really is.
While I agree wholeheartedly, we should avoid drawing more attention than we already have. We must be patient until Oblivion's network turns up a lead...or until our self-proclaimed queen makes her next move.
While I agree wholeheartedly, we should avoid drawing more attention than we already have. We must be patient until Oblivion's network turns up a lead...or until our self-proclaimed queen makes her next move.
Where...am I...
My people! Are they...are they safe...?
Why am I...
Why am I...
A pity Y'shtola was not present for “Sphene's” return. A cursory glance at the impostor's aether would have doubtless been enough to confirm our suspicions beyond a doubt....
Shale said she left this machine running to process more of the data from the field station. Is it done yet?
Though we have too little information to draw any useful conclusions as yet, I daresay the Queen of Reason's behavior henceforth will be illuminating.
Neo regulators... I heard the idea came from the citizenry, but something doesn't sit right. We'll look into this.
I have reached out to a few of my childhood acquaintances, but as we suspected, only those without regulators have any recollection of mourning Queen Sphene...
The look in your eye bespeaks your determination. It would be my pleasure to refer you to Guildmaster Luciane.
Lest you worry unduly, Luciane is an affable and kind-hearted woman. Even those not of the guild have been known to seek her counsel on various matters, and ever have they been given fair hearing.
Luciane awaits you in the training area yonder. Present yourself before her, and impress upon her your desire to join the guild.
