Yes, the Vow of Resolve speaks true!
So...will you tell me what happened? G'raha Tia has given me a summary, but I would hear your detailed accounts.
Can we walk while we chat? I want to see how things are in the city.
In that case, let us make our way to Brightploom Post.
Our soldiers remain on high alert, but if the threat of invasion has passed, I will bid them take a well-earned rest.
Even though I knew all was well, I'm still comforted to see Lamaty'i with my own eyes.
I'm my own person... I am!
It was indeed Zoraal Ja's realm inside the dome.
A realm he ruled jointly with Sphene. He as the King of Resolve, and she the Queen of Reason.
Just like you and me here.
Their people live very different lives compared to ours. But like us, they live them to the fullest.
And Sphene is a big part of that. She's a considerate and approachable ruler who treats everyone as family.
You and her must've gotten along well.
We did... But out of love for her people, she's chosen the wrong path.
They're a good folk, the Alexandrians... They welcomed us into their homes, and treated us with kindness and respect.
But Zoraal Ja slaughtered them. Slaughtered those he was meant to protect, for his own ends.
By the gods... Tell me how this came to pass.
That a king should harm his own people...
Father...
When his attack on Tuliyollal failed, Zoraal Ja sought to gain more power. So he ordered his people executed and harvested their souls.
What drove him to commit such an atrocity?
He claimed he wanted to bring the entire world under his dominion. But that was just a means to achieve his true desire.
My grandfather... He was a great person, right?
Maybe...maybe my father wanted to prove he was his own person. That he wasn't just a great person's son.
I daresay you are right. As the Resilient Son, our father's trueborn heir, he bore the weight of expectation. That weight was clearly greater than any of us had imagined.
That's probably why he was who he was. And why he didn't want me...
Damn it all... If only we had tried harder to reach out to him...
<sigh> Let's keep moving.
Growing up, I envied my brother. But that envy may have added to his burdens.
What my father did was wrong. He had to be stopped. But...I'm glad I could learn a little about the person he was.
Zoraal Ja had become unimaginably powerful. It was only with Forename's help that we managed to defeat him.
And now I have a responsibility to the people of Alexandria. And above all to Gulool Ja.
...!
I promised, didn't I? I wanted us to become family. And it isn't only out of obligation. Since I've gotten to know you, I've come to really like you.
You might not be my nephew by blood, but we're family to the end. We'll always be there to help each other, isn't that right?
Right!
You too, Forename. After everything we've been through, we're already as good as family.
What!?
What do you mean, “what”? The more family you have, the merrier, don't you think? Come on, let's head into the barracks!
Like Papa did by taking us in, I want to make my family bigger! You wouldn't mind some extra family too, right, Forename?
I'd like to be family with you too, Forename!
I'm glad I could hear what happened in the dome.
But I'm sorry that you had to bear such a heavy burden, Lamaty'i...
Don't be. As Vow of Resolve, it was something that I had to do.
Besides, it was your ingenious strategy that kept Tuliyollal safe!
Asking you to rule with me was definitely one of my better ideas!
It was because we all fought as one that we could repel the invaders─and then only with the aid of Vrtra and his kin.
Thanks to Alphinaud and Estinien interceding for us, we were able to swiftly forge an alliance with Radz-at-Han.
And when the dragons appeared in our skies, I felt that this was it─the Tuliyollal you had envisioned.
We owe our new allies a great debt, and I hope that we can repay them one day.
Indeed. Once I've dealt with matters, we should go and thank them in person.
Forename had told me as much, but you still have work to do, yes?
Yes. I need to find Sphene.
She harmed our people so that her own might live. But as I was raging at her deeds, I realized something.
Just because Tuliyollal is safe doesn't mean I can ignore what becomes of Alexandria. That's the kind of thinking that led to conflict in the old days.
I want to help the Alexandrian people live in peace and happiness. And the only way to do that is to stop Sphene from walking her path.
Very well, Lamaty'i. Just promise me you will take care.
I promise, Koana.
It's nice to be home, even if only for a while. Thanks for coming with me, Forename.
I wish there was something I could do to help...
<sigh> While I had anticipated this, I still can't help but worry.
I'm sorry that I have to go away again so soon.
But even setting Sphene aside, some of our own people may be among the Endless.
I can't just sit around and leave everything to the others.
I understand. I have matters here well in hand, so do what you must.
Forename. For all you've done for us─for our nation and our family─I fear I can never express sufficient gratitude. But thank you, from the bottom of my heart.
I understand Zoraal Ja spared no souls for reviving himself in battle. His pride wouldn't permit him to do otherwise, I expect...
Well, it was good to catch Koana up. Now we'll talk to the sol─ ...Hm?
Who might this be from?
Hello? ...That's right, Forename is with me.
...Is that so? In that case, let's meet at Sunperch. See you soon!
Y'shtola is heading back. I dare to hope she's found a way to pursue Sphene.
If you all wanted to go on ahead to Sunperch, I'll pay our soldiers a quick call.
Apologies for the wait.
You're all here. Then that means...
Aye. We believe we've found a way to travel to the reflection to where Sphene has retreated.
I was busy providing aid in Solution Nine, so I haven't heard the details myself.
Could you start from the beginning, Y'shtola?
Per Sphene's own words, the gate atop Everkeep was opened and closed by the power of interdimensional fusion.
And it was the artifact known as the key that allowed her to control it.
According to Ketenramm, the key was brought with me to the Source twenty years ago.
It was then kept here in the palace until its theft by Zoraal Ja, who used it in Yyasulani to fuse a portion of our world with this reflection.
Following Zoraal Ja's demise, Sphene claimed the key and disappeared through the gate.
But where exactly did that gate lead? In seeking the answer, we took another look at Origenics─and made a startling discovery.
As you all know, there should have been one more level at the summit of Everkeep.
The twelfth level─the King of Resolve's royal abode.
Right. But when you actually went there, you saw that it didn't exist.
Curious, we analyzed Origenics's logs to see where the memories of the departed were being sent. And where should it be but through the gate, to the missing twelfth level.
That level alone must have lain outside the fused region, and so was left behind.
Then it means...
Indeed.
'Tis Sphene's home world, and she has returned there, to join the memories of her departed citizens.
It means that beyond the gate lies not just any reflection, but the one from which Alexandria originally hailed.
'Tis Sphene's home world, and she has returned there, to join the memories of her departed citizens.
But as the key lies with her on the other side, we haven't the means to reopen the gate.
Forgive me, but I thought we already knew she had gone home─or at least it seemed obvious to me. What I want to know is, how do we pursue Sphene if the gate here is closed?
We use another gate. And it just so happens we know where one is.
The Skydeep Cenote!
Aye. All evidence suggests that the gate there leads to the world whence the Alexandrians and I came.
But assuming that's true, how can we open it?
That is what we shall find out, using the code in this earring.
As you'll recall, Krile's earring is in fact a data storage device.
An analysis of it yielded a code─something used to control a contraption, and a very large one at that.
Given the circumstances of Krile's arrival in the Source, we believe that said contraption is the gate to the golden city.
This is admittedly an educated guess, but we are quite hopeful that it will work.
To make such progress in so short a time... You really are amazing!
We couldn't have done it alone. The credit must go to the members of Oblivion for acquiring the information we needed, Shale especially.
Right then, it seems the plan is set! To the Skydeep Cenote!
I've told the officers of the Landsguard about my intention. They fully support our endeavor.
Aren't we going yet?
Begging your pardon, Forename, but might I have a moment ere setting forth?
Oh, you're already going to give herhim the thing?
Yes. I had thought to save it for later, but in light of these developments, I feel now is the time.
As Lamaty'i says, I have something for you. Please come with me to Bayside Bevy.
Hehe, I hope you like it!
Are these all shops? It's so different from Solution Nine!
