I, too, am happy to answer your questions. Any encounter might be an opportunity to do business.
Thank you both for your help!
Ah, before we begin─there will doubtless be other occasions when we need to act independently, so I brought these for the two of you.
What's this?
'Tis called a linkpearl─a gemstone harvested from a special shell. When linked together, they allow people to communicate across great distances.
Is that so!? What a handy thing to have!
It'll be very useful on our travels. Speaking of which, I should get back to introducing my two new friends here!
Even up close, the Hanu are remarkably similar to the Vanu. Aside from those brilliant feathers, of course.
Is there a reason the Pelupelu all wear those masks...?
Who should we speak to first, do you think?
Please, ask anything. I'll gladly tell you what I know.
What a stroke of luck to forge this connection to the palace. May it be the beginning of a profitable partnership...
Wuk Lamat may not be as experienced or accomplished as her brothers, but she has an affinity for the people. For her, finding those willing to cooperate is as simple as asking.
The Tuliyollal Saga features a number of Tural's clans. Two of those, the Hanuhanu and the Pelupelu, have settlements relatively close to the city, so I brought a representative of each.
As I mentioned before, the Hanu are a cheerful people who love their festivals. They make their appearance in the Lay of Reeds, and their home village─Ok'hanu─is located in Kozama'uka.
The other, smaller fellow is one of the Pelu, a clan of business-minded folk from Urqopacha. They appear in the Lay of Gold, and craft all kinds of marvelous goods in Wachunpelo, their village.
Now, as for deciding which village to visit first...
Why don't you put that adventurer's instinct of yours to work for us, Forename? Pick our destination!
I trust your instincts!
I've been quite content waiting here, dining on the Third Promise's coin, but it seems you're ready to ask your questions now.
So, what is it you'd like to know?
The route to Ok'hanu─we go south through the Arch of the Dawn, then follow the road which runs alongside the Kozama'uka river, is that right?
It is. Be warned, however: my brethren tell me the recent storm has rendered the path even muddier than usual. The footing is quite poor in some parts.
Far worse was the destruction visited upon our homes, though. Houses were torn apart, and several people injured if not killed. Even our beloved festival is in danger of being called off this year.
If you do still plan on going, I must urge you to proceed with caution.
We'll be sure to watch our footing, thank you.
Now I'm worried for the Hanu─it sounds like they were hit hard by that storm. Anyway, if we're bound for Kozama'uka, we should head over to the arch...
We'll be back to talk to you in good time, master merchant. Meanwhile, you can eat and drink your fill at Xbalyav Ty'e─it's all been arranged!
Unlimited tacos in exchange for a few days of my time? I'd be fool to pass up that deal!
