Heading to Kozama'uka?
Through this gate and we'll be on our way south to Kozama'uka...
I swear that gate gets bigger every time I see it. Considering the size of Gulool Ja Ja, though, I suppose it's better than having it be too small.
The Hanuhanu are a friendly folk who should welcome us with open arms. Assuming they are not too preoccupied with recent troubles, that is...
I should have liked to observe the festival, but the Hanu are probably not in the mood to celebrate.
Are we all ready to leave?
Then onward to Kozama'uka!
Open the way!
Kozama'uka. The land of rainbow terraces.
It commands the gaze of all who visit without fail. The many-colored marvel.
An endless torrent of water cascades over sheer cliffs to shape the wetlands below. To its relentless flow, all life must yield.
Together with Wuk Lamat, we proceeded along the marshy trail—a road upon which the Dawnservant and his comrades once traveled.
Look at those falls... Even from this distance, you can feel the weight of that water!
The Isle of Haam was impressive, but as you can see, Tuliyollal does not want for natural wonders.
The ground is swampy, so watch your step. You wouldn't want to fall into a bog.
I won't! I told you, I've been here before!
Come on, Ok'hanu isn't much farther.
“Wetlands” is an apt name. Much of the ground here is positively saturated.
I'd love to stand at the bottom of those huge waterfalls and bask in the majesty of it all! Pity they're so far away.
There is no stopping the Third Promise, is there? A good thing she has Erenville to keep her from getting lost...
For all his grumbling, he's certainly there for her. Everyone should be so lucky to have such a loyal childhood friend.
Right, let's get moving. If we continue along this road, we should find ourselves in the village before long.
The water from the falls must flood the wetlands and flow into all these streams and rivers...
So this is a Hanuhanu village! One can tell at a glance how very different their culture is to the Vanu's.
Assuming we have the right idea, one of the Dawnservant's electors should be here somewhere.
Ow... Stupid, distracting waterfalls...
Ah, everyone has arrived, and none the worse for wear. Except for a certain Third Promise who slipped in the mud despite my explicit warnings.
Hey! I asked you not to say anything!
A-Anyway! This is the Hanuhanu village I was telling you about: Ok'hanu!
I agreed to serve as a guide, not a nursemaid.
It's like our friend said. The people are in no mood for festivities...
I can only assume they are still recovering from the damage wrought by the storm.
Indeed... Well, let's do what we came to do and find this elector.
