Wicked white, that was too close!
Thank you, friend. I don't know what I would've done if you hadn't come along.
I was trying to rescue my lady's handkerchief, you see. The wind must have blown it over the edge, but luckily it caught on something. I thought if I could just stretch out far enough...
It's not just a scrap of cloth! Not if it belongs to her.
I would risk my life and more to spare my mistress but a single moment of sadness.
She is my entire world! Without her, I am nothing.
When I first came to Eulmore, I thought only of improving my lot in life.
But there was so much more to this city than wealth and plenty. There is no war here, no conflict... The residents all treat each other with warmth and respect.
My mistress has been ever so kind to me, and I can think of no other place in Kholusia where I could possibly be happier!
<cough> Sorry, I might've gotten a bit carried away. I find it hard to stop when I start counting my blessings these days.
Please, you should come with me to meet my lady. Once she hears of your deed, you'll be witness to her generosity firsthand.
...What!? Lonely, you say!?
Curse my clumsy feet! I must return to her immediately!
My attendant told me everything. I am so very grateful you were there to offer your assistance!
Oh, my attitude is naught unusual, I assure you. Without the efforts of our bonded residents, we free citizens would not enjoy the pleasures of our daily lives. They are deserving of our unending gratitude.
As if he were a member of my own family! I could not live the wonderful life I lead without him. We free citizens owe the bonded our unending gratitude.
Mayhap in another society, our different standing would breed prejudice or resentment. But in Eulmore, a most glorious measure is in place to avert such unpleasantness.
Part of that measure requires that the free surrender their fortunes. Upon registration, all of our property─financial, intellectual, or otherwise─is given over to the city.
In exchange, we are provided with ample funds and commodities to live a life of pampered luxury.
Being liberated from the concern of earning coin has an almost miraculous effect on people's outlook. There are no rivals to compete against, only fellow residents with whom to enjoy our tranquil existence.
Now, if you'll excuse us, I must see what the markets have to offer as a reward for the return of my handkerchief. Oh, and I've not forgotten you, of course, our courageous messenger-turned-rescuer!
All this talk of relying on the bonded, and I haven't given a thought as to what your duties might be. I hope I haven't interrupted your work unduly?
A tour of the city, is it? Then you really must visit the Beehive─it's always buzzing with activity! Ahem, local humor...
Anyway, a lady by the name of Tista-Bie usually has her seat near the entrance. She will gladly speak with you on any number of topics, assuming you find yourself on her good side!
