...
Stubborn creature. There is no place on this great star we have not together traveled, and still he remains obstinate in the presence of strangers.
Argos has rather exacting standards, I'm afraid.
What? You've ridden him before...? Ah─your “before” meaning my “after.” Not at all confusing, that.
Interesting. 'Tis certainly not unthinkable...
But speaking of the here and now, the quick solution is for us to face off in a sparring match.
Demonstrate to him that you are capable of holding your own against me in battle, and you should convince Argos that you are worthy of his back.
And besides, I might even teach you a thing or two into the bargain.
You seem doubtful. But useful lesson or not, it will certainly be a moment to remember─a memory of the distant past to cherish!
What say you, traveler out of time?
I admire your confidence!
I had a feeling you might say something like that. Know that you “must” give a good showing, however!
That's up to you, isn't it? If a loss would sting, then you had better win!
Clear your mind and prepare your weapons. I will await you at the clearing over yonder.
Clear your mind and prepare your weapons. I will await you at the clearing over yonder.
Shall we begin? Be warned: I'll not go easy on you!
Let neither side hold back.
My blade sings!
Impressive... I shall have to try something different.
No quarter!
Have a taste!
I see you won't be easily overcome...but neither will I.
Prepare yourself!
Very well, let us move to the final trial.
Very well, let us move to the final trial.
Very well, let us move to the final trial.
Very well, let us move to the final trial.
Very well, let us move to the final trial.
Very well, let us move to the final trial.
Break your chains, shed your burdens─and show me your strength of will!
You still stand. The people of your time are more resilient than I had dared hope.
I have seen enough.
'Twas my intent to finish it, but clearly I underestimated you.
One would think I never learn. I made the same mistake with Azem when we first sparred. Despite being less than half my age, her strength was astounding.
As is yours. 'Tis plain you have weathered considerable hardship. Far more, even, than your tales would suggest.
It seems we have both learned much on our journeys.
Well now, I daresay he has warmed to you.
A boon to be sure. He never forgets his favorites, and is ever eager to come to their aid.
Argos will soon have us standing on the very spot where the Meteia made their departure into the night sky. With luck, we will learn something of Hermes's intentions.
My hope is that we find no connection─no festering wish for oblivion. Then we might have Hermes and his considerable expertise working for us, rather than against us.
Let us move over to the edge before mounting, shall we?
That will allow Argos to catch the currents rising up from below, and give us a smooth ride over to the isle.
Climb onto Argos's back and we can be off. ...You know, I honestly cannot remember the last time he carried anyone but me.
Climb onto Argos's back and we can be off. ...You know, I honestly cannot remember the last time he carried anyone but me.
Climb onto Argos's back and we can be off. ...You know, I honestly cannot remember the last time he carried anyone but me.
Isn't this pleasant? Argos certainly seems to think so.
Now, what was the name of that tree...?
Noe...something... Ah! Noetophoreon! Quite a striking specimen, is it not?
Brace yourself for the landing─I wouldn't want you tumbling off at the last moment.
Quite a small place, lacking even the most basic equipment.
The present may yield no clues, but we may yet try perusing the past. Have you done this before?
So you cannot control the power freely. Worry not, I shall assist you.
Come and stand before me.
There are two ways to see the past.
The first entails peering through the walls of the soul in the moment a subject is recalling a memory.
The second requires no subject, and is instead a process of piecing together an event from ripples left in the ambient aether.
As memories are etched upon the aether of the soul, so too are they etched upon the aether of the world. In this way can history be preserved.
Such memories are given to fading, however, and can prove challenging to visit.
But come, let us try. Close your eyes.
All units fully functional and proceeding on course towards their respective stars.
Estimated time to completion of survey is one hundred and eight cycles.
End of status report. Severing connection with shared consciousness.
Did you hear that, Hermes? All is well!
Yes, good tidings at long last...
Every step of the way, I've been reminded how little we understand creation. How the universe defies imagination.
But soon we won't need to speculate. We'll know the answers─what others live for!
Indeed... And we'll owe it all to you and your sisters.
I wonder... What answers we will get?
Whatever intelligent beings that exist out there are bound to be vastly different from us.
Diverse in form and culture. Possessed of unique ways of thinking.
Their conception of life and its purpose will be no exception. Completely and utterly unlike ours.
Utterly unlike...how?
I have no idea...
Yet whatever answers we receive, I will not dismiss them out of hand. No, I will think earnestly on them all.
Then I will share them with our people, that together we may contemplate our own existence.
Perhaps then our star will become a better place─not only for man, but for all life.
Meteion. Though I gave you wings to soar the heavens, I did not teach you how to walk the earth. So loath was I to bind another living being.
In the course of your long journey, you will learn from those you meet. Learn to walk and run and so much more.
And when you return, older and wiser, we will have a celebration to mark your homecoming and coming of age both.
Will there be apples? Covered in syrup?
And how are you supposed to eat them?
Hmm... Rather than food... Perhaps...
A flower.
Yes. Upon your return, I will gift you a beautiful flower.
So, what is your opinion?
I am inclined to agree.
As we had suspected, the two are somehow involved. Yet 'tis difficult to believe that they would deliberately seek to end all life.
I understand. He is a gentle soul, and well intentioned. Yet it does not take ill intent to beget ill.
We must consider the possibility that something may have gone awry. Perhaps it was oversight...or simply an accident.
As you say, that was hardly conclusive. Yet based on what we witnessed, I find it difficult to believe that they would deliberately seek to end all life.
Be that as it may, we cannot rule out the possibility that they will play a part in bringing about the Final Days. Perhaps unwittingly.
In light of this...
I propose that we reveal your tale to Hermes himself.
If he does not wish for the Final Days, as we believe, he may well join us in pursuing a solution.
Then it is settled. Let us seek out our friend with all swiftness.
'Twould not do to let such a pure soul be blackened by tragedy.
There are any number of places where Hermes might be in Elpis...
But we could do worse than to look in Ktisis Hyperboreia, the largest facility. It stands in Ethoseletikos Boreas, the northern isle.
I wonder, Forename─for an institution which claims to studiously research every species destined for release into the world, did you not question how they find room for them all on so few islands?
The answer lies within Ktisis itself. I touched upon the practice before back at the archives, where a vast area is stitched together out of multiple conceptual spaces. The same holds true for the interior of this facility and its magically constructed environs.
'Tis there, within those sprawling habitats, that the chief overseer and most of Elpis's observers conduct the bulk of their work.
Come, the simplest route is via the neus north of Poieten Oikos...
Come, the simplest route is via the neus north of Poieten Oikos...
Come, the simplest route is via the neus north of Poieten Oikos...
Ah, good, the neus acknowledged you as my guest. You should now have the authority to use it as you wish.
As for the way to Ktisis Hyperboreia, we follow this path, then turn left at the crossroads.
Here we are: the grandest research facility in Elpis.
We should head inside and ask after Hermes's whereabouts...
Hermes is at another facility...as we have just discovered.
Furthermore, we've confirmed that his studies into dynamis, as well as his creation of Meteion, were entirely private pursuits.
No one else we spoke with appeared to possess the chief's depth of knowledge on the subject, and neither did we hear any tales of stolen research.
Which means that if Hermes himself harbors no desire to bring down an apocalypse, then he might be recruited to help prevent one...
...Or so sayeth the illustrious Emet-Selch.
According to your story, the Fourteen divined the connection between the celestial currents and the Final Days, but were never able to pinpoint the root cause of the calamity.
With our people's greatest minds─not to mention Hythlodaeus's sharp eyes─committed to the pursuit of a solution, such an outcome seems...inconceivable.
The only possible explanation is if the nature of the catalyst was so inexplicable that even we failed to perceive it.
And what better fits that description than the invisible, intangible dynamis?
Which in turn, leads us to our next question: how did Hermes, in his role as Fandaniel, not recognize the subject of his own research?
We must assume that he either knew and was unable to help, or that he was otherwise prevented from identifying the cause in the first place. At this juncture, all we can do is speculate.
To be clear, the Convocation does not tolerate acts of deception or malice. We are practiced at perceiving truth, and would have known had Fandaniel lied to us.
Hermes has no conscious wish for the world to end. Of that, I am certain.
It seems there is more to the tale after all.
We conducted an investigation of our own, you see...
How comforting... We seem to have reached the exact same conclusion.
I see no reason to delay further. 'Tis time we brought Hermes into the fold, as it were.
Save your thanks. I did not say I believed your ridiculous story.
This does not mean I believe your ridiculous story.
But as Emet-Selch, I have a duty to examine any potential threat to our existence. No matter how ludicrous or personally offensive I may find it.
How lovely─our merry duo has become a quartet.
Past disagreements are no reason to reject collaboration in the here and now. I commend Emet-Selch for his practicality.
Do not approach me, do not speak to me, and do not dare presume to treat me as a friend. I am merely carrying out my duty.
I think the time for leisurely exploration is past. If I might have a moment to adjust my vision...
...There he is. On the next isle over. Meteion is with him.
Hermes appears to be in the midst of an observational study, but I suggest we hurry over before they venture elsewhere.
Head straight down the path─we can teleport to Misopses Euros from the device at the bottom of the slope.
Head straight down the path─we can teleport to Misopses Euros from the device at the bottom of the slope.
Misopses Euros is interesting in that it is the only region in Elpis which lacks a researcher hub.
This is largely due to the nature of its observation sites, within which they let loose creatures anticipated to be unruly and dangerous.
I have also heard tell that the area is kept deliberately sparse in the event that─ Well, let us just say that no one should live near the neus which provides access to a certain...facility.
What, you expect me to praise you and your progress? On the contrary, I'm simply surprised you made it this far.
Then again, even with you slowing her down, there is no denying that Venat is an accomplished researcher. Her wealth of wisdom and experience is unmatched, and her achievements in creation magicks─in any field, frankly─are nothing short of extraordinary.
Though the singular brilliance which sets her apart can make her motives somewhat impenetrable at times...
As her student and successor puts it, she is a force of nature, at once so close...and at the same time, so very distant.
They are close by, within the Hungering Gardens. That would be the circular enclosure you see just up ahead.
Well, then, Forename─make yourself useful and bring Hermes out here to us.
If I were to go, he would assume I was only there to press him on the Fandaniel matter. Of all of us present, you stand the best chance at convincing him to put aside his work for the moment.
But the creations in there are not exactly─
Hmm, then again, perhaps Forename can handle them... She did survive a bout with Venat, after all!
Off you go to find Hermes, but do be prepared to come to blows with the garden's denizens!
Someone needs to go into the Hungering Gardens to speak with Hermes, and it seems Emet-Selch has nominated you for the task!
Someone needs to go into the Hungering Gardens to speak with Hermes, and it seems Emet-Selch has nominated you for the task!
Forename? Where did you come from?
Forename, what are you doing here! I thought you were keeping Hythlodaeus and Emet-Selch company?
...An “important matter.” And unrelated to my decision on Fandaniel, you say?
Then, yes, I will come. As soon as my work here is finished.
It will not be long, I promise, but you should really wait outside the garden with the others. This is no place for idle exploration.
You needn't be concerned for our safety. Meteion and I are protected by a ward which conceals our presence from the creatures.
We're taking notes! We'll talk later?
I was prepared to swoop in if need be, but 'tis clear you have faced your fair share of monstrous opponents.
...What is that ghastly odor?
You spoke with Hermes, then?
...And were briefly entangled with the denizens of the Hungering Gardens as well, I see─or should I say, smell.
I cannot speak for certain Convocation members, but I for one am impressed with your fortitude! Well done indeed!
Now that you've convinced Hermes to confer with us, let us pray that things will soon take a turn for the better.
For as fascinating as it would be to meet the Emet-Selch who would recreate Amaurot in the depths of the ocean, I think it best for all concerned if such tragic events never came to pass.
Be it in our future or your past─assuming yours is not truly written in stone. Naive hope that that is...
Hm? Why am I always so forward thinking? I simply wish to enjoy all that life has to offer!
Hermes said he would not be long, yes? Then we shall wait here until he emerges...
My apologies for keeping you waiting. I understand there is a matter you wish to discuss.
Aye, a matter of the utmost gravity...if one can suspend disbelief.
Go on, then. Tell him what you told us. Who you are and why you came.
The Final Days...
The phenomena observed during these star-encompassing calamities is likely the product of a dynamis reaction.
And none is more versed in the applications of this energy than you, Hermes.
I must stress that we do not believe you would desire such destruction. We come not to lodge accusations, but to beg your wisdom.
And so, distressing though the exercise may be, I ask that you share with us your opinion on the matter─on the assumption that our visitor's tale is true.
Even you, Venat...
As you say, the phenomena observed in the two calamities may both be attributed to dynamis.
Of note is the difference in its effect. In the first Final Days, it warped creation magicks. In the second, it warped the people themselves.
The key variable, I suspect, is the aetheric density of the men of each age.
As you know, aether, in essence, negates dynamis.
Harboring high concentrations of aether, we ancients cannot readily manipulate dynamis─nor be manipulated by it. Therefore, rather than our selves, the calamity affected our magicks.
In contrast, having been sundered, the people of the future are composed of but a fraction of our aether.
Thus are they susceptible to the influence of dynamis─and its transformative potential.
But that would explain only the mechanism, not the cause... Though perhaps...
What is it? Even should it be a hypothesis, we would hear it.
Dynamis is an energy put in motion by feelings. Feelings for which there must first exist a source.
A source to which the victims must be attuned─one that harbors the selfsame negative emotions. Elsewise, it could not be the agent of such extreme change.
So it wasn't the stagnation of the celestial currents...
Someone─or something─is instigating the star's demise.
So we've a villain on our hands after all... Any idea who or what it could be?
The celestial currents comprise the outermost layer of the star's aether, encasing it like a protective sphere.
According to your tale, 'twas where the currents were weakest that the phenomena first manifested.
If the inciting factor came from without Etheirys, then its effects would first be seen in those locations.
Greetings. Can you hear me?
Do not be alarmed─I mean you no harm.
I wish only to hear your words. Share your feelings. Know your thoughts.
May we please...be friends?
Meteion? What is it?
Executing scheduled task. Suspending individual self and connecting to shared consciousness.
Connection established. Commencing status report.
Ah! Ahhh! Ahhhhhh!
It hurts, it hurts! It hurts!
So hot...so cold...so sad... I don't understand... Make it stop... Please, make it stop...
Steady, Meteion! Steady!
So scared...so lonely... The pain...it's too much...
Why...why...why do we...they...hurt...hurt...hate...HATE!
This is wrong! All wrong!
She's...gone? But how?
She has altered her aetheric density in order to blend in with her surroundings. An ability for avoiding confrontation.
Most effective...frustratingly so. I can't see her either─not even a trace.
Stay away. Please. This is wrong. My mistake. So please...
Are you all right?
...In your mind? No, we only heard her speak the instant before she vanished.
Of course. When communicating without words, Meteion also employs dynamis.
That would explain why you were able to hear her when we could not.
Then you are our best chance of finding her. Follow her voice, and try to track her down.
Hindered though we may be, let us split up and search as well.
Meteion! Where are you!? Please, answer me! What has happened to you? To your sisters...?
If I cannot perceive her aether, what else have I to offer but my rousing support!? Ahh, Hermes truly is a master of his craft...
Ugh, this is an exercise in futility... You have to be the one to find her, Forename! Follow her voice!
I've strained my senses to their limits, but found nothing. You must calm your mind, that you might hear it─that you might feel her silent voice!
I've strained my senses to their limits, but found nothing. You must calm your mind, that you might hear it─that you might feel her silent voice!
I've strained my senses to their limits, but found nothing. You must calm your mind, that you might hear it─that you might feel her silent voice!
I've strained my senses to their limits, but found nothing. You must calm your mind, that you might hear it─that you might feel her silent voice!
It seeps...into my mind... Our voices... Reporting...
No, no! Hermes mustn't hear them! I have to run...to hide...
No, no! Hermes mustn't hear them! I have to run...to hide...
No, no! Hermes mustn't hear them! I have to run...to hide...
Greetings...and salutations...
Commencing report...
Oh...oh no, we can't tell them that! We must run... Run far away!
Please... Don't follow me...
Please... Don't follow me...
Please... Don't follow me...
How...? How did it come to this...?
Is this the reason we traveled to the stars? Why we sought out other life-forms?
Is this it? Is this the answer!? No, it cannot be...it cannot be!
Is this it? Is this the answer!? No, it cannot be...it cannot be!
Is this it? Is this the answer!? No, it cannot be...it cannot be!
Compiling report for dissemination to Hermes and all peoples of Etheirys...
Processing expedition data... Preparing profiles on intelligent civilizations...
Formulating answers to the question...
Finalizing report...
No, Forename... You mustn't listen!
It's wrong...it's all wrong...
It's wrong...it's all wrong...
Any sign of Meteion?
Panicked and confused... Which will make it all the more difficult to predict her movements.
Hermes. What do you make of this situation?
The Meteia are linked to a single mind─a shared consciousness which connects them across any distance. I suspect something has happened which disrupted its usual harmony...
How might we access this shared consciousness of theirs?
Much as you would approach any sentient being: directly.
In the Meteia's case, that means speaking to any incarnation within physical reach.
So unless we can track down the Meteion we just lost, we have no means to communicate with them...
No way of knowing what befell her sisters; no way to provide directions or guidance.
Then we had best set our musings aside, and concentrate on how we might find her!
A frantic search will avail us little. We must be clever about this...
'Tis a shame there is no registered concept we could use to create another Meteion. Assuming of course we could link her to the shared mind! But no, if it were a viable solution, Hermes would have surely suggested it...
In the Final Days, aether is twisted by the invasion of dynamis from beyond the star, its progress intensified by feelings of fear and despair and anguish...
Nay, I like not the picture which emerges with these latest pieces.
Oh, my dear Meteion... What did you witness out there that frightened you so?
Why do you seek to keep it from us? How terrible could it possibly be...?
My apologies, I... We should focus on the task at hand.
Correct me if I'm wrong, but Meteion renders herself invisible by matching her aetheric density to that of her surroundings, does she not?
If so, could we not then disrupt her concealment with a surfeit of aether? Much how Emet-Selch solidified your presence when first we met you!
Don't be absurd. I can hardly channel aether to a recipient whose whereabouts are hidden from me.
Which is why we must all work together.
Forename will continue the search in the same manner as before, but this time with you in tow. Once she ascertains Meteion's likely location, you proceed to reveal our wayward familiar with a swift aetherial downpour!
Very clever. And thankfully, she has made herself easier to capture by fleeing towards Lethe.
Assuming she is made visible, it should prove no great feat to herd her into a corner.
Then we have our plan. Forename and Emet-Selch will be our tracker and trapper respectively, while we others predict and obstruct Meteion's avenues of escape.
Emet-Selch and I will keep an eye on each other's aether to help coordinate our efforts. Let us be about it!
...Well, it seems we are partners for the time being. Let us return to where we last saw Meteion and pick up the trail from there.
I will keep myself in a state of preparedness, ready to rain down aether at a moment's notice─meaning it falls to you to keep the way clear.
Now, did Meteion go straight ahead towards the pier...or did she stray from the path somewhere?
As the only one who can hear her voice, you will need to take the lead.
Aren't you the one who went to all the trouble of traveling into the past to avert an impending apocalypse? But fine, fine, be my guest! I will await you at the entrance to Lethe.
The would-be savior of Etheirys past and future returns. After you, my good hero.
The would-be savior of Etheirys past and future returns. After you, my good hero.
The would-be savior of Etheirys past and future returns. After you, my good hero.
Nothing this way? We try another route, then.
Nothing this way? We try another route, then.
Why can't I fly? Are my functions being restricted!?
Hide─yes, I'll just have to hide, then. Where no one can find me...
Hide─yes, I'll just have to hide, then. Where no one can find me...
She went into the lake!? As if this wasn't tiresome enough...
Well, at least that open expanse should make her easier to find. We won't lose her this time!
Ugh. The indignation, to drag my robe through the water. Hythlodaeus better not breathe a word of this to Azem...
Still, mild humiliation will be the least of our concerns if we fail to get our hands on Meteion!
We should be able to reach the bottom of this drop by climbing down the rocks at the water's edge.
Do not even think of dragging me over the falls. Final Days or no, if I end up drenched from head to toe, I swear I will feed you to a remora.
Not here... I'm not here... Please...
By that rock, is she? Very well!
What? Why can't I hide!?
Forename...? What are you saying? Everything is so faint...
I'm sorry... I'm not strong enough. Stay away. I'm begging you...
Don't make me say it. It will break him. His poor, fragile heart...
Now we have a chance.
Once the others are in position, the two of us can herd her into their midst!
Keep after Meteion! Hythlodaeus and I will coordinate our movements!
Is this neus not in use? It seems to have been left to the mercy of the elements...
Either way, it bears no trace of Meteion's essence. We move on!
There! I see her!
Now, where to close the trap...?
Aha!
Give chase. We shall herd her into the shelter.
Please, Meteion. We must speak.
I'm sorry, Hermes... I'm so sorry...
If someone can hear these words, then please...
Please...protect them. Protect them all.
Individual self suspended. Connection with shared consciousness stable.
Our survey is complete. We shall now report our findings.
All units safely arrived at their respective destinations. Seeking answers to Hermes's question, we attempted to make contact with the intelligent denizens of each star.
Results are as follows, in order of numerical code.
Hena: Traces of civilization found─structures believed to have served as domiciles. No extant life-forms detected.
Dyo: Ruined remnants of buildings scattered across star, surface of which is encased in ice. Presence of life could not be verified.
Tria: Evidence of large population centers akin to cities recovered. No extant life-forms found─only their lingering essence.
Tessera: Edifices surmised to be abandoned residences found. No extant life-forms detected. Deadly plague or extreme environmental degradation likely to have led to mass extinction.
They are all...dead?
Okto: Star found in state of violent conflict. Contact successfully made with inhabitants, but deployment of weapons of mass destruction resulted in total annihilation of local population shortly thereafter.
Ennea: Star is a barren desert. No identifiable flora found. Bones of living beings resembling men discovered beneath sands, but determination regarding their intelligence inconclusive.
Remind me, Hermes. What exactly was the question you entrusted to Meteion?
I tasked her with asking what others live for. What gives their lives...meaning...
Did you consider what may happen if the premise of the question is flawed?
To be able to answer it, one must be living─and desire to continue doing so.
But if Meteion finds no living beings in the course of her journey...
Or none who desire to live, what then?
What answers would she derive from their silence?
Meteion, enough. Suspend your mission and return hither at once.
Deka-pente: Local civilization once flourished under auspices of higher power. Said power later laid waste to civilization in fit of rage.
Upon revealing this to me, entity elected to self-terminate in lieu of providing answer to question. No other intelligent life-forms found.
Turning a deaf ear, are we?
We are taking Meteion back to Amaurot. As I understand, we will need her if we are to bring back all of her sisters.
Y-Yes...
Meteion...
It isn't right, is it? It isn't right to turn away from the answer...even if the answer...is pain...
Even if we aberrations must scream ourselves hoarse to be heard...
Aye. Whatever answers we find, I will not dismiss them out of hand. These words I said to you...and I will hold myself to them.
What is the meaning of this!?
You cannot take Meteion. Not until she has finished her report.
All else must wait.
You fool!
If all Hermes means to do is listen to Meteion's report, then it is his right to do so.
But once he receives the answers to his question, what then? The fate of the world may very well hinge upon the choice he makes in that moment...and we must be there when he makes it.
...
Why, Hermes? Why could you not leave well enough alone!?
Will these answers assuage the pain you feel when a creation is returned to aether?
Had you never cast your accursed question to the distant stars, you may have one day learned to be at peace upon this one...
Do you understand why Hermes would do this? His logic escapes me entirely...
Hermes has headed to Ktisis.
Considering the expansive dimensions of the place, even we may have a difficult time locating his aether. All I can say is that he entered from the rooftop, and likely arrived at the uppermost point in the facility.
So...do we pursue him?
Of course we pursue him. No matter what Hermes might be thinking, Meteion is a potential threat that needs to be brought under our control.
The Convocation's duty to safeguard this star takes precedence over any personal stake in the matter.
Venat? Forename?
'Tis clear we stand on a precipice, but we have yet to determine beyond a shadow of a doubt that Meteion's is the hand which tips us over the edge.
Nevertheless, if we are to learn the truth of the Final Days, we must give chase. And even if neither Hermes nor Meteion is ultimately responsible, we cannot leave them to suffer this torment alone.
Agreed on all counts. To Ktisis Hyperboreia we go!
