Surely the satrap will offer his wisdom and guidance to us...
Finished your rounds and ready to share?
There you are. You've spoken with the survivors?
Indeed. We thought to share what we have gleaned, that we might together gain a greater understanding of present circumstances.
Fortuitous timing. Alisaie and I completed our own investigations not long ago.
Then we should take a moment to compare notes. Shall we begin with the two of you?
...So the merchant Khalzahl was gravely concerned about his business in the days preceding his untimely end.
The tales we heard were much the same. The first victims to be changed into blasphemies were all overcome with anguish of one manner or another.
Then those who saw their loved ones stolen before their eyes succumbed to a similar panic, setting in motion a chain of transformations.
Fear, unease, despair...these negative feelings serve as a catalyst.
If so, then it is not unlike the calamity that befell the ancients.
With their creation magicks they unwittingly gave form to untold horrors.
Had they simply lost control, surely it would have manifested in many forms─not all of them monstrous.
Yet somehow this phenomenon is triggered solely by the darkness in their hearts. A common thread with what we now witness.
...Common, but not identical. While the beasts the ancients faced were forged with magic alone, those of today are born of sentient beings.
Why remains to be seen, but there is one fundamental difference between us and our predecessors: our souls are sundered, whereas theirs were not.
Perhaps that single variable makes all the difference.
If I may...there was another detail that troubled me.
We have it on good authority that Khalzahl's transformation took place before the skies began to burn.
What!? If that's true, then the situation's more dire than we realized.
It means even if there's no ominous sign presaging the Final Days, anyone─anywhere─has the potential to become a beast.
Even in lands we thought safe. Even as we speak...
