We're sorry, Master Moren...
<gasp> Aren't you...?
...The Warrior of Darkness!?
M-My name's Riqi-Tio, and...and I want to help everyone!
Please, tell me what I have to do to be a hero─to be a Warrior of Light!
So, I want to be a Warrior of Light. But not one that fights with a sword and all that.
No, I want to be the kind that fights with potions and heals people! An apothecary!
And I'm going to help everyone in the Crystarium. No, in all of Norvrandt!
When I told Arkil and Eirwel this, they said that the Cabinet should have lots of tomes about potions.
But this place is so big, and we don't have the faintest idea where to begin searching. At this rate, I'm not going to get anywhere...
If one knew where to look, one should indeed be able to find treatises on potions here. Even so, I fear they may prove a little difficult for ones so young. But hmmm...
Esteemed Warrior of Darkness, perhaps you might accompany young Riqi-Tio to Spagyrics? Rather than through tomes, I believe she stands to learn more by observing the chirurgeons at their work.
Sounds like a plan. It seems we've finished here, so we'll come with you.
Hah, I'll have you know I'm really fast! You're going to be the rotten egg!
Really? Thank you so much, Warrior of Darkness We'll see you at Spagyrics!
I know you are a busy woman, but we can't well leave them without guidance. And it would only be for a little while.
You can find your way to Spagyrics, I trust? Off you go, then, and have care you do not knock anything else over.
Well now, to what do I owe the pleasure of so many bright-eyed visitors?
Is that the way of it, sweetie? You wish to learn about medicine?
That's right! I want to become a Warrior of Light who uses potions to help people all over the world!
Well, that is a very noble endeavor, and you aren't alone in it. No few at our infirmary yearn to venture forth as Warriors of Light.
But ultimately, they have all decided not to pursue that dream.
Huh? Why?
Because the people here need them too, sweetie.
The guards who place themselves in harm's way to keep us safe. The artisans who toil tirelessly that we might sustain our way of life. And younglings like you, who are the future of the Crystarium.
They couldn't simply abandon them, you see. And so, difficult though it was, they made the decision to remain.
Then...does this mean my dream isn't any good?
Oh, sweetie, yours is a wonderful dream. And it would be my pleasure to help you to pursue it.
If we all work hard, the day will come when our chirurgeons may set forth to aid folk in every corner of the realm.
As we strive towards that day, I hope that we can rely upon you as well. Though I must warn you, ours is not an easy path. No, you must work very, very hard.
I'm not afraid of hard work! I'll become the best apothecary ever, just you watch!
Hee hee, that's the spirit! Without further ado, then, may I entrust you with a task?
I have placed an order at Sweetsieve for a potion ingredient, and I would like you to go and collect it.
Ooh, an ingredient! Leave it to me, miss!
My, such an abundance of energy. Though I can't help wonder if she'll be all right by herself...
My apologies, but would you mind accompanying her? When you arrive at Sweetsieve, speak with a woman named Gracine, and she will point you in the right direction.
I shall join you. As the one who suggested this course to Riqi-Tio, I would assist in her first steps.
And what about the two of you? Are you coming along too?
