You there! Please, help us!
This way!
You're one of us, right?We need your help!
We'll make it out of this—together!
We owe you one!
Is everyone all right!?
Thanks, stranger!
We have to get back to the shelter!
What was that voice...?They've found us—get ready!
Ungggh!
Aaagh!
Ack!
It's going to explode!Get behind the armor!
Agh! The machina's done for!
What a way to go...
Damn it...
Take...the fuel...
Mother...forgive me...
I can't die here...
I can't die here...
I can't die here...
I can't die here...
What a shame! You were too slow to keep my lord from your friends. Let the slaughter begin!
It is a miracle we were able to restrain the tempered without suffering casualties.
A welcome one. A-Ruhn-Senna and the others have their hands full as it is. Thankfully, there are enough scales for everyone.
And what of Jullus? His symptoms were particularly severe.
They were, but others fared still worse, including some brought back from the Magna Glacies.
As those in most desperate need take priority, it may be a while before he receives treatment.
But rest assured that he will. In the meantime, we must find our missing friend. May the Fury guide you.
Of all the bloody times for a disappearing act...
Right when the first wave struck. We'd be fools to think it a coincidence.
But where even to begin the search? No one saw her leave in the chaos, and we've no trail to follow.
While I know full well she can handle herself, I worry all the same.
Ah. Speak of the devil...
Well! Time to call off the search!
Hmph. Case closed.
That's her? Over there?
Aye, 'twould appear so. Thou art struggling to perceive her presence?
I am. Perhaps, in the aftermath of the wave, there is some residual effect interfering with my faculties, but...
Where have you been? We've been worried sick!
Now, now, all's well that ends well. Are you all right?
Are you all right?
...Who are you?
Sadly, that is all we have time for today. The effect has run its course, and back to your own bodies you must go.
But where are my manners? You have all traveled so very far, and I have yet to pay my respects.
Though in my defense, I was ill prepared to receive so many uninvited guests. As such, preliminary entertainments were in order.
A handful of tempered soldiers to hamper your progress. Refugees to command your attention while I siphoned their ceruleum from the shadows─particularly effective, that.
Charitable souls that you are, you bent over backwards to aid them, heedless of the delay. Predictable to a fault! And so my plan approaches completion unhindered.
Anima will soon have absorbed the requisite amount of aether, and then shall come the spectacle to end all spectacles!
The eldest and most powerful of primals will awaken, and all shall bear witness to the Final Days!
The gods themselves will be my meal. Your dear companions my dessert. Upon this world I'll feast, and death shall follow in my wake.
All your hate, all your rage, you will render unto me.
For upon thy life's reel wind too many threads. Of fate. Power. Weal, enmeshed with woe.
More terrible still is the attrition wrought upon thy companions, as they are swept up in the storm of thine existence.
Take heart and protect them well. They will be your strength and your salvation.
Thank goodness. She's awake!
Perfectly fine, yes. I hope the same can be said of you.
I am pleased to report you are very much alive.
Everything in working order?
That's a relief. Oh, and before I forget: thanks for coming to our rescue.
Given recent events, I would be surprised if you weren't feeling a bit poorly.
A hearty meal and a long rest would be my recommendation under normal circumstances, but these are anything but. If Fandaniel's boasts are to be believed, we must act quickly.
Once you've blown away the cobwebs, we can discuss preparations for our assault on the Tower of Babil.
I will require a detailed report on what occurred whilst you were...not yourself. For the contingent, of course.
It can wait until later, however. For now, it's enough that you've returned.
The body that you were forced to inhabit turned cold and stiff the moment you were returned to your own. Perhaps the soul it belonged to is long gone...
Let us pray it is so, for I doubt it would be better off in the care of Zenos or Fandaniel.
Thank heavens you're you again. Gave me quite a fright.
Whatever that was, let's not do it again, eh?
Full glad am I to see thee awake and restored to thine own flesh once more.
Hm, yes...'tis still you...
My apologies─I realized too late that the aether emanating from the tower was distorting my perception. 'Twas likely a temporary effect, but I remain wary.
No apologies necessary, least of all to me. If anything, there's a strange comfort in knowing I'm no longer the only one to have been used as a villain's puppet. Though I pray you'll be the last...
Are you certain that you've recovered? You mustn't push yourself, especially after an experience like that.
You're certain you're well? Nothing out of place? No missing bits?
Good. Though I won't promise the same for Fandaniel and Zenos after I'm through with them...
How much must these people suffer before they're satisfied?
How many cruel, pointless tricks must they play?
Prelude to the Final Days or no, this ends now!
So, how shall we strike them down?
I realize that my sister is...eager to proceed, but please be sure that you've fully recovered before you throw caution to the wind.
...I suppose your experience was a bit different, though. Unlike you, I had the pleasure of being stuck with Lahabrea while he went gallivanting about doing a poor impression of me. It adds another layer to the insult, believe you me.
Are you well enough to make your report?
This “Anima” was summoned with the corpse of Emperor Varis? Does their depravity know no bounds?
It seems not. More to the point, we can surmise that wave of aether issued not from the Tower of Babil, but from the primal lurking within it...
A primal whose cry rang rather more loudly in your ears than ours.
If you were taken to the tower itself, then this proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that it is the beating heart of the Telophoroi's machinations.
In which case, we have some highly relevant information.
As many of you know, ever since we dispatched troops to free the Leveilleurs, we've been developing a plan to infiltrate the tower.
According to Thancred and his scouts, the main structure is lousy with tempered and enemy magitek.
Furthermore, the road leading to it has collapsed, making it difficult to approach in numbers.
Thus do we propose dividing our forces into two parties─one to distract, and one to infiltrate.
The diversionary force will be comprised of the Ishgardian, Gridanian, and Lominsan delegations.
They will begin the construction of bridges, to make the Telophoroi believe we are marching upon the tower.
Meanwhile, the best suited of our Ala Mhigan, Ul'dahn, and Eastern comrades will use a different method of ingress.
Look here.
The facility marked in red is the Enceladeum, a vast magitek manufactory. In ruins now, of course.
But the freight tunnel connecting it to the erstwhile imperial palace remains intact.
While the Telophoroi's attention is elsewhere, our infiltration force can use it to enter the tower undetected.
Be aware, however, that the underground rail network remains very much operational.
The tempered are using it to bring supplies to the tower even now.
...If it can carry their materiel, it can carry us too, providing we sneak aboard unseen.
The Scions will lead the infiltration party. Once inside, you must locate and dispatch Fandaniel and Zenos.
Aye. Jullus and so many others have lost much to the Telophoroi. We shall ensure they lose no more.
We'll get our fill—you and me both.
Aye. There will be no more casualties of the Telophoroi's maniacal ambition.
How quickly can we enact this plan?
Fandaniel made it quite clear that haste is a priority.
Of paramount concern, even, assuming he didn't name the tower “Babil” on a whim.
In Amon's time, it meant “gateway of the gods.” Xande used it to refer to a voidgate, but in this case, it almost certainly alludes to something altogether greater...
...The eldest and most powerful of primals.
All the more reason to act now. The rest of the contingent is aware of the plan, and are ready to move at a moment's notice.
You are to proceed north to Forum Patens. Lyse's group will meet you there.
As ever, we are grateful for your foresight.
This is the moment we've been waiting for. Spare no effort in your preparations.
Lyse's party ought to have secured the tunnel by now. Rendezvous with them and make your way inside.
May the Fury guide you...and us all.
Those not taking part in the assault will defend this camp and the airships, as well as safeguard your escape route from the tower.
You need not worry about what comes after─so fight with all you have.
I am to accompany you into the tower. It is an honor, as ever!
<sneeze> Damn these frigid lands. <snort>
The Sun does not sneak. ...However, he will travel this path of yours, and those who walk with him will bask in his radiance.
Forename! The way into the tunnel is clear. We've made sure of it.
Oh, I'll warm up when I throw a punch or two.
Oh, the shoe will be on the other foot once we're in, believe you me. A good fight should warm us right up!
Hmph. Barely enough cloth to swaddle a newborn. Clearly, you have spent too long around this feral dog of a Dotharl.
Watch your tongue, fool, lest I feed it to the crows!
We will see who is the fool when you freeze to death. Expect me not to warm your ill-prepared hide─these furs are for myself and my Nhaama alone, should I be blessed to meet her this day.
As if any woman of worth would wish to be warmed by you, “little sun.” Should we find such a warrior within, she will bask in my glorious flame.
Stop, both of you! Save your fire for the enemy. As for extra furs, I have plenty to spare!
As do we.
Hello, everyone! All set for battle, I see.
Yes, free of unnecessary encumbrances, if rather more susceptible to the cold. Let us review our strategy─quickly, if you don't mind.
Pipin's group has gone ahead to the Enceladeum. We are to meet them there.
We wait until the tempered's attention is drawn by our diversionary force, then we sneak onto the train. Next stop: the Tower of Babil!
If any─tempered included─are injured, we Xaela will tend to them.
You Scions must press on, no matter what.
We should avoid moving as a group until we're underground, so we'll need to make our own ways to the Enceladeum. See you there.
Just head north, and you'll reach the Enceladeum soon enough!
The Scions are welcome to our spare furs as well! Erm, you might mention that to Urianger...
I crave battle, not this insipid chatter.
A “glorious flame”...? Nay, I would have seen it, were it so...
Fear not─no serious wounds have gone untreated. Nor will I stand for being left behind while the rest of you rush headlong into danger, so you needn't bother suggesting it.
...I think it's time I was off. If I look at Urianger for one more moment I'm liable to freeze solid.
...And you're one hundred percent certain you're fit to fight? No odd specters haunting your wake? Nothing feels...tingly?
C-C-Cold? N-N-Nay, I feel nary a thing... Nary a thing...
When I infiltrated the palace with Gaius, we took an entirely different route. Since then, the whole place has been reconstructed, and 'twould appear that path is no longer accessible.
We'll stagger our departures so as not to raise suspicion. You go on ahead.
Who could possibly be cold at a time like this? My heart is pounding with anticipation!
