Well! That we should be received by the lord of Doma himself!
I but afford an emissary of peace the courtesy he is due.
Welcome to Doma, my lord...?
Ah, where are my manners? I am Asahi sas Brutus, ambassador plenipotentiary of Garlemald.
He is heir to the Naeuri clan...and Yotsuyu's stepbrother.
It seems I need not introduce myself─not in the presence of the famed Yugiri Mistwalker. Your skills as a shinobi are known far and wide, my lady.
It is true─the former acting viceroy is my sister. Yet, bonds of kinship aside, we have precious little in common. As will soon become plain, I come not to sow strife, but to end it.
I am of the Populares, a collective which represents the interests of the common man. Long have we labored to bring about reform to the Empire's provincial policy.
Happily for us, our master acknowledges the need for change. Indeed, His Radiance, Emperor Varis zos Galvus personally sanctioned this mission, granting me the authority to speak with his voice.
To negotiate peace with Doma.
Well then, we have much to discuss.
Will you accompany me to my hall?
Gladly, my lord!
We shall escort our guests across the river to the enclave.
Yugiri, pray go on ahead to the Yuzuka Manor docks and see that the ferries are ready.
Lord Hien and I will accompany the imperial delegation on the first ferry.
When you are ready, speak with the boatman and join us on the other side.
There you are, Forename. So, first things first: what do you think of the enclave? I must say, I'm quite proud of what my countrymen have accomplished in the time.
We even have an aetheryte now, courtesy of the Onishishu. Be sure and attune to it, would you? Once it has the Warrior of Light's seal of approval, people might actually start using the thing.
But on to the matter at hand: the ambassador and his retinue are at my hall, taking their ease ahead of the negotiations. I want you there when the talking starts.
It will serve to send a message to the Empire that Eorzea and Doma stand united. I am not normally one for hollow posturing, but in this game of nations, such gestures carry weight.
Oh, and should you feel uneasy about speaking for the Scions, Alphinaud and Alisaie will also be there. You need only eat, drink, and look imposing. Say you'll come.
I knew I could count on you.
It promises to be a dull affair, to be sure, but you have survived far worse.
When you are ready, come and join me at my humble abode, the Kienkan. The guardsman will see you in.
