Ah, Yotsuyu! You look...well.
Of all the people...
Is something wrong, dear sister? These are our beloved parents. Does not the sight of them bring back sweet childhood memories?
...Gosetsu. I have to take this to Gosetsu...
Hmph. It would seem my little surprise was not sufficient.
You needn't glare at me so, Lord Hien─I merely did what any loving son would do for his family. Lest you doubt, I am content to leave the acting viceroy in your care. Pray treat her as you would any daughter of Doma.
Do not grow too fond of this place, dear sister. You will come back to us ere long.
We continue with the exchange as planned, then.
Very good. The structure across the river should serve our needs. We shall await you there with the conscripts if you would bring your captives...?
Agreed. Until then, Ambassador.
I knew better than to trust Asahi, but that was a dirty trick.
Still, unpleasant as it was, we have at least put the matter of Tsuyu's future to rest. I have sent her back to the enclave with Yugiri to give Gosetsu his precious persimmon.
Come, let us follow them.
You have that look, Alphinaud. What is it?
Oh, nothing of consequence, most like...We can discuss it upon our return.
We should pay a visit to Gosetsu, and reassure him about Tsuyu's fate. He will want to know that the Empire has finally relinquished its claim on her.
Gosetsu, are you awake?
My lord! Come in, come in...
When Tsuyu returned, her eyes were red from weeping. She spoke not a word─simply sat and peeled some fruit she'd brought for me.
She then claimed weariness and retired to her chamber. Tell me, what happened to upset her so?
The ambassador arranged a surprise reunion with her foster parents. A misguided attempt to restore Yotsuyu to her senses.
It was plain their presence caused her great distress, but she seemed otherwise unaffected.
Yotsuyu was mistreated as a child, was she not? It was a cruel trick to use her tormentors like that, knowing the pain it could cause.
Hmph. I like this Asahi less and less...
Be that as it may, he has agreed to allow Yotsuyu to remain with us in Doma. Our primary concern now is to hand over the prisoners without incident, and bring our people safely home.
There was one other detail at the meeting which caught my attention.
I assume you all noticed the rather suspect crates within the castrum? The imperials were quick to retrieve them afterwards, but I wonder...
Out with it, Brother. You fear they might contain bombs or war machines?
If the ambassador wanted me dead, he has had ample opportunity. No, assassination is not his intent, but we should be on our guard for other acts of treachery.
