I will not let you harm these innocents!
I grow tired of these games. Where are our reinforcements!?
All this for two children? What do they even want with them!?
They mean to overwhelm us. See to their reinforcements. Quickly!
Now! Aim for the younglings!
Stand in front of them! We'll bear the brunt of it!
If they would call for reinforcements, then so shall we!
Hold your ground! I will try to draw away their reinforcements.
That seems to be the last of them.
You have nothing to fear, child. You are safe now.
Thank you, sir...
You saved us again. Thank you. If you're ever passing by our village, look us up. You'll always be welcome.
Thank goodness we arrived when we did.
Indeed. But what could have prompted the Red Kojin to stray so far from the Ruby Sea?
I presume these are the sellswords hired by Yotsuyu?
If so, the answer is simple: desperation. Bereft of imperial employment, they seek other means to line their coinpurses. Another sad legacy of the Empire's mismanagement.
The Empire to which you have sworn allegiance.
Must you always be so pointed? If we are to bring about lasting change, we must look beyond narrow allegiances.
You have every right to doubt me, but in time I hope you will come to see that we share a common goal.
You and yours have fought fiercely to change the Empire from without, but if we are to end the cycle of conflict, the Empire must change from within. Am I wrong?
I knew you would understand. You have witnessed such change firsthand, after all, during your time in Ishgard.
Never? I wonder, would you have said the same of Ishgard? ...Believe what you will, but I assure you: the Empire can change.
Dear me... I had hoped to convey my views on our nations' shared hopes under more peaceable circumstances.
Yet this regrettable little interlude did afford me a chance to see the famed hero of Eorzea in action, and few imperial soldiers can say that. At least, few who lived to tell the tale.
Well, after that little ordeal, I believe it may be time for us to return to the enclave.
Return, my lord? But what of Namai? You seemed so eager to observe the villagers going about their daily lives.
To be frank, I still am. But I rather doubt the good people of Namai would take kindly to the sight of a man in imperial uniform with blood still dripping from his blade. Even in your company, my presence would only prove a distraction.
Fret not, however. Thanks to the three of you, I have seen a great deal more than I otherwise would. And with any luck, Lord Hien will have finished considering my proposal by the time we return.
Thank you again for agreeing to join me. If not for your aid, the Kojin may well have overwhelmed us.
Pray go on ahead. Lord Hien is expecting you. I will remain without and keep watch over our guest.
Well, we had best not keep him waiting.
You are expected, my lady. Shall I show you in?
Welcome back, my friend. Yugiri tells me you accompanied her and Asahi on a tour of Yanxia. I had hoped you might take the opportunity to recover from your exertions at Sakazuki...
...But I gather your time was well spent. Until the ambassador affords Yugiri a chance to make a full report, however, I must rely on you to supply the details. So please─tell us how it all unfolded.
The Red Kojin? Here? Have there been any other such incidents since the liberation?
Not that I am aware of. If they are planning some new venture here in Yanxia, we will need to increase patrols.
In any event, I am indebted to you for fighting them off. But tell me─and don't be modest─was Asahi truly the first to leap to the youngsters' aid?
He was. I was quick to doubt him when we first met, but his desire to save them seemed quite genuine. It's possible he truly believes what he's saying.
In the time I've known you, you have always been an excellent judge of character. What do you make of the ambassador?
Oh, how I would love to believe that. An ally within the Empire could change everything. It could give us a real chance at peace.
Then the question of what his true intention may be remains.
He confounds you too, I see. And for that reason alone, we would be fools to underestimate him.
Regardless of his aim, I am resigned to playing his game. For now, at least.
Well, forswearing summoning should be simple enough, considering you never dabbled in it in the first place─which just leaves the somewhat thornier question of how to police the Red Kojin.
It was with that very question in mind that I sought Alphinaud's counsel. Thanks to his knowledge of the eikons and the rituals used to invoke them, I believe we've identified a workable solution.
As you will recall, Susano was summoned forth using the power of relics locked away in the Kojin's treasure vault on the Isle of Zekki. Though said relics remain there to this day, it is all but certain that the act of summoning exhausted their stores of aether making subsequent summonings impossible.
Assuming that is the case, preventing the primal's return rests on denying the Red Kojin the means to amass new stores of aether, either via the acquisition of crystals or the relics they are wont to collect.
For this, I plan to enlist the aid of our friends the Blue Kojin. Since Doma's liberation, we have forged closer bonds with Bunchin and his people, and with their support, I am quite confident we can keep the Red from obtaining what they require to call upon this Susano.
And what of the prisoners?
They will be exchanged as agreed, and I will give full credit to Asahi for the success of the transaction. If there is aught we can do to help the Populares garner favor, I mean to see it done.
But first, I have some unfinished business to attend to. Would you all come with me?
Yes, of course, but...what manner of business?
A past mistake which I would see put right. One which has weighed heavy on my mind...
I had her brought here in secret while the three of you kept our guest company.
The world has not been kind to you, it is true. But that does not excuse your sins. You should be at the bottom of the river.
Yet here you are, the living, breathing proof of my failure. A failure for which I would now make amends.
What did I do? I don't remember.
Was it really so terrible? Tell me, please! What did I do!?
You speak of sins, my lord, but at whose feet do those sins lie?
With the soldiers who committed the crimes, or those who commanded them to do so?
With both, I would say, for all have a conscience, and all must choose. But with no memory of who she is or what she has done, what sin remains to be cleansed?
You ask that I show mercy?
I ask why the heavens saw fit to deny me my rest.
Why Yotsuyu was spared not only death but the bitter memories of her life.
You truly think it the will of the kami...
If so, her life is not mine to take. It is yours to safeguard.
Come the hour of the exchange, if her memories have not returned, she may remain here in Doma to live out her days as Tsuyu.
But if they do, the Garleans shall have their viceroy. Though the people will protest, they will come to accept my decision when they have been reunited with their loved ones.
Thank you, my lord.
Now, then. I believe we have kept our guest waiting long enough.
Did Gosetsu not seem strange to you?
His sympathy for Yotsuyu apart, I mean.
I know his powers of endurance only too well, but after all he has suffered, even he should not be on his feet.
He puts on a brave face for our sakes, but it would not surprise me if he lacked the strength to raise his blade.
...Though I suppose if he and Yotsuyu are to enjoy a life of peace and quiet, he will have little use for it.
It falls to us to shape that future. One in which he need never again set foot on the battlefield.
With Yotsuyu safely in Gosetsu's care, all that remains is to answer Asahi's proposal. I realize other matters demand your attention, but I would ask that you stay awhile longer to see this business through.
My apologies. Our deliberations took longer than expected.
Think nothing of it. The time afforded me the opportunity to go on a rather rousing excursion through Yanxia.
You have reached a decision, then?
We are willing to cooperate with you in combating the eikon threat, and also in the exchange of prisoners. Assuming you accept our conditions, of course.
As you know, your sister is in our care. Due to certain complications, however, we are hesitant to release her into your custody.
Complications?
She was inside Doma Castle when it collapsed. Though she survived, she remembers nothing of her past life─not even her name.
To clarify, she is in our care not as a prisoner, but as a vulnerable citizen of Doma.
Are you saying you refuse to release her?
Not at all. If her memory returns before the appointed hour.
And if not, what exactly...? You will accommodate her here in Doma?
Well, I sincerely doubt she will be of any great strategic value to the Empire. She spends her days daydreaming of dango.
Dango...?
...How dreadful.
Very well. In light of our recent...misstep in Sakazuki, it seems only fair that I show you the same understanding you have shown us.
...Though I do have one, small request. Regardless of Yotsuyu's value to the Empire, she is yet my sister. Before I leave, might you permit me to speak with her in private?
Of course. Perhaps you could even bring her a plate of dango. She would be most pleased.
Yugiri will see you to her chambers.
Forgive me, my lord, but...has he not been gone overlong? Perhaps I should─
Calm yourself, Gosetsu. I understand your concern, but we have to wait. He deserves that much.
I am sorry to have kept you all waiting. Thank you for your understanding.
Long did I dream of this reunion, but never did I imagine it would be so joyless. A part of me hoped your stories of her condition were just that. But alas, it is as you say.
Tsuyu... Do you remember anything of this man? Anything at all?
I... No.
I am a stranger to her. That much was clear to me from a single look. I leave her in your care.
As you wish.
Now, if you will excuse me, my superiors are long overdue a report. They will be elated to hear of our agreement, of that I have no doubt.
As for the exchange itself, once I have obtained the relevant permissions, I will arrange for your people to be relieved of their various duties, and sent here to Yanxia. This will take time, of course...
Of course. You may rest assured your soldiers will be well cared for until your return. We will also begin taking steps to better counter the threat of the Kojin and their eikon.
Before you take your leave─there is one other matter...I am informed it was you who took the lead in rescuing two young Domans from a band of Kojin sellswords. I have not yet had the time to thank you properly.
Please, there is no need to thank me. I only did what anyone would do under the circumstances. Fortunately, I was in good company at the time.
The blight of the Red Kojin is of the Empire's making. Were it not for our transgressions, those children would not have needed saving.
The people of Doma have suffered enough, my lord. And I promise to do all in my power to spare them further pain, be it at the hands of the Kojin, or indeed the Empire.
I pray the Emperor will see things as you do. There may yet be hope for us all.
Until we meet again.
Gosetsu. As before, I leave Yotsuyu to you.
I invite the rest of you to join me outside. Let's treat Asahi to a proper farewell.
The ambassador's airship awaits at Castrum Fluminis. Let us be off.
I wish you a safe journey.
This has been a most enjoyable visit. I look forward to our next meeting.
Maxima, would you take the others and see that all is ready for our departure?
I simply cannot leave without first giving thanks to the Warrior of Light for accompanying me through Yanxia.
Mark me, savior of the savages. There will be a reckoning.
