<gasp> ...Oh, it's you. What are you doing out here in the dark?
This is the enclave, is it? When the soldiers dragged us back to Doma, you were the last person I expected to see.
You're the bane of our existence, Yotsuyu! A font of misery!
You couldn't even do us the simple courtesy of dying, could you! Oh no, you had to live and taint us with the shame of your failure!
We had a perfect life in the capital! And now they're making us wallow in this muddy ruin like common swine! I don't deserve this!
Now, now, dear, that'll do. There seems little point in berating the girl when she scarcely remembers her own name. Our time would be better spent contemplating how we're to survive this unhappy predicament.
You've kept your looks at least. I suspect you'd fetch a handsome price with the right buyer. Maybe enough to get us to Kugane and start a new business...
Ah, my beloved parents. No sooner do I wake from gentle slumber than the world returns in all its cruelty. Yes, this is how it always was. How it was meant to be.
Very well. If I cannot escape my nature, then I shall embrace it.
To the very depths I have sunk, my soul steeped in spite and rotten to the core. The self-righteous hide behind “justice,” but I need no such mask.
Father. Mother. Was it not you who made me into this monster? Who taught me the truth of this miserable world?
For years I knew naught but the taste of pain and humiliation, but the time has come to savor my vengeance against Doma. Against all my enemies.
And it begins...with you!
Yotsuyu...?
What...?
Well done, dear sister. Did I not say you would come back to us?
Brother dearest. What a surprise.
You always were a cold-blooded little worm. I doubt you thought twice about sending our parents to their deaths.
Your dagger yet drips with their blood and you presume to judge me? To be frank, I didn't think you had the strength to slay them so cleanly. A single thrust each... I'm impressed!
But surely you can't be satisfied with murdering a pair of doddering elders. You yearn for a deeper vengeance...and the power to see it through.
Please... I don't want to die...
Any sign of her?
...What happened here?
I knew what would happen if she recovered, and still I did nothing. ...You say she left with her brother?
Whatever he wants with her, he was willing to pay for it with his parents' lives...
But this is neither the time nor the place. We must gather the others.
We have recovered the Naeuris' remains, and will hold the cremation anon. <sigh> Would that they had never again set foot in Doma.
I broke the news to Gosetsu myself. He was...quiet. I think it best that he be allowed some time alone with his thoughts.
So, my friends...that which we feared has come to pass. Yotsuyu has regained her memory and returned to the imperial fold.
It is, by any measure, a cruel twist, not least for Gosetsu...but one which does not invalidate our agreement. According to the terms of the contract, we were bound to surrender Yotsuyu into the Garleans' hands should her condition improve prior to the hour of the exchange. By that reckoning, all is...if not as it should be, then...as it must be. This I can accept.
But what I cannot accept are the unconscionable lengths to which Asahi went to achieve this outcome.
Given his recent conduct, and his apparent admiration for Zenos, it is plain he cannot be trusted. And that is to say nothing of the unexplained containers he insists on bringing to our meetings. Whatever the ambassador is planning, I think it unlikely our negotiations will end peacefully.
In the event of hostilities, the safety of the conscripts must be our first concern. As such, I would have an escape route in place before the meeting begins.
A wise precaution. If the main structure of Castrum Fluminis is to be the stage for the exchange, then I believe a thorough inspection is in order...
The citadel has stood empty ever since the imperial withdrawal─while we took steps to ensure that it could not be defended by an occupying force, it is entirely possible that the ambassador has arranged things there to his advantage. I will slip inside, and make certain we have an unobstructed exit.
Pray allow me to join you. I have some experience of imperial facilities. And should matters take a turn for the worse, I would hope to be of at least some use...
Very good. That should be enough to guarantee us a way out of the castrum. Beyond that, however...
We will need a ship to ferry the conscripts back to the enclave. Even with every skiff we have, it would take several trips to evacuate everyone.
...A Confederate sekibune, on the other hand, would require only a single run, and leave us far less vulnerable on the water. Assuming, of course, Rasho can be convinced to part with one.
Might I take the lead on this? I've had dealings with Rasho and his pirates before.
And I won't be alone, will I, Forename?
Much appreciated.I quite fancy parleying with pirates again. It's just a shame Lyse won't be there to reprise her role.
Well, that was enthusiastic. Were you hoping to join Yugiri and Alphinaud on their skulking mission, by any chance...?
Hm! I am certain you would make a persuasive pair─but I think I will accompany you to these negotiations all the same.
My lord, the ruler of Doma should not be seen consorting with common brigands...
Come now, Yugiri─they stood with us against the Empire. If we would ask their aid once more, we must treat with them as equals. My presence shall serve to demonstrate our sincerity.
...Indeed, my lord. Pray forgive my presumption. By your leave, Master Alphinaud and I shall be about our task.
And we should be on our way to Onokoro. Time is short, and Rasho may take some convincing.
Now there is a face I did not expect to see. What brings the noble lord of Doma into the company of bilge rats such as we?
If you've come to offer Doman chains in place of Garlean ones, then I'm afraid you've wasted a trip.
Ahahaha! And what fine subjects you would make! With your fleet at our disposal, our restoration efforts would be hastened tenfold.
But let us speak seriously. I stand before you not to demand your fealty, but to request your aid once more.
Mayhap you are confused. Doma's liberation was but a means to an end. We aided you only to save ourselves.
Now we have no such incentive. We have sworn no oath to you, and will not come running like hounds at their master's whistle.
And I would not presume to treat you thus. I come to petition your cooperation as an ally of equal standing.
Equal standing, you say? Seems a bit lopsided to me. Where's the profit for us in all of this?
Profit! Must you always think in such shortsighted terms? Have you ever heard of doing the right thing?
Have you ever heard of pirates, little miss? You'll find we're simple souls: you pay our tithe, you sail in peace; deny us our due and we take it by force. We'll pull you out of the water if we see you drowning, but we are not in the business of doing something for nothing.
Calm yourself, Mistress Alisaie. We did not come here to moralize. We came here to talk. And there is more to be said.
According to records recovered after the liberation, relatives of your Doman-born brethren were among those conscripted into the imperial army. And as you may be aware, we recently negotiated the return of said conscripts. Many, alas, will arrive to find no families waiting for them, no homes to grant them shelter.
I would ask that you offer them a place in the Confederacy. You would not be rescuing strangers, but welcoming brothers and sisters into your ranks. And has not the Confederacy been in need of new recruits...?
You seem well-informed of our affairs, Lord Hien.
The losses we suffered at the Garleans' hands are no secret. But since we drove them out of Doma, the Ruby Sea has come alive with traders and travelers. So many vessels to tax, so few pirates to tax them.
We could do with some more hands on deck, and doubly so if they're familiar with the inner workings of the Empire.
Very well. The Confederacy agrees to your request. You will have your ship.
...But before that, you must do something for me. The vessel I have in mind was damaged during your battle with the Empire. Though we have mended her, she has yet to be declared seaworthy.
She is sound enough down below, but when you load her up with conscripts and the waterline rises...those upper planks had best be free of cracks.
Assuming you want your people to stay dry, you will do me the favor of swimming around the hull to check for weaknesses. That is, if Doman lords are not averse to getting their robes wet?
Not this Doman lord! If we each inspect a third of the ship, it shall be done in a trice.
That is the spirit. The ship is moored at Quickscape Pier. Our apprentice shipwright will be on deck to hear your report. Look for a lad named Ihanashi.
And I thought I had a knack for parleying with pirates... For the record, my previous attempt was an unmitigated success, and yes, I should have quit while I was ahead.
Well, well. I'd thought the rumors exaggerated, but the young lord lives up to his reputation...
Well, well. I'd thought the rumors exaggerated, but the young lord lives up to his reputation...
Well, well. I'd thought the rumors exaggerated, but the young lord lives up to his reputation...
