It is no ordinary mortal who can acquire one Crystal of Light...much less three.
The Crystals make you strong, and it is to that strength that the Light is drawn.
Hydaelyn chose well.
...A pity that your existence is irreconcilable with our own. We cannot well allow you to continue upon your present course.
Alas, we came here not to play, but to take the measure of your strength for Master Lahabrea. That task now accomplished, we take our leave of you.
Fare you well, Bringer of Light.
You are returned! What sights awaited you within the manor? What has become of Lady Amandine? You must tell me all!
...So she went so far as to consort with devils. Would that I could have done more to prevent her fall. May she finally find peace in the beyond.
I know not whether the masked men you encountered are the same pair that first led my lady astray, but it is plain that they are of the same vile brood. Should the chance ever present itself, promise me that you will visit upon them tenfold the woe they have brought upon others.
But who am I to speak of punishment? By my silence, I allowed I know not how many innocent young women to die in unspeakable circumstances... It matters not wherefore─through misplaced loyalty, cowardice, or both, I am an abettor to a gross crime. I will surrender myself to the authorities and accept whatever punishment they deem just. I only pray that the gods will have mercy on my soul.
Welcome back, Forename. Full glad am I to see you safely returned. Tell me, how fared you on your sojourn in the Twelveswood?
...Two of Lahabrea's minions? ...And they sought to measure your strength...by their own admission?
The devils taunt us... It is beyond doubt, then─the Ascians have begun to move in earnest. Would that we knew to what end.
Yet I will not bemoan our plight. Thanks to your tireless efforts, we are at least aware of the encroaching Darkness.
Alas, we can only do so much. It is clear to me now that we Scions are too few to protect the realm against this threat unaided.
We must needs alert the three nations to the presence of this elusive enemy, and recommend that they heighten their vigil.
There is no shortage of misery in the world that the Ascians might exploit. We have an arduous struggle ahead of us.
Yet come what may, we must not allow ourselves to become lost to hope, for that is precisely what the enemy desires.
We have gleaned all we can from the information available to us. Let us set this investigation aside for the present.
Another matter has arisen that requires your attention. Let me know when you are ready to be briefed, and I will summon the others.
The Maelstrom requests our assistance.
Concerning the kobolds they sent such copious notes on, I presume?
Yes, and no. It has more to do with their findings, which portend a peril far greater than any beast tribe.
What sort of peril?
The worst kind. A tribe of kobolds in the vicinity of Limsa Lominsa has reawakened Titan.
Our task will be to slay the primal. The Maelstrom have sworn support for the endeavor.
They are no strangers to the havoc kobolds can wreak.
Years before the Grand Company's reformation, two primals, Leviathan and Titan, chanced to converge upon the seawall, wreaking untold devastation.
There, by the grace of the Navigator, were the mercenaries Merlwyb hired able to fend them off.
Yet it did not take long for the beast tribes to regroup, and they summoned their primals once more.
Thankfully, their second coming was decidedly short-lived─but that is beside the point.
So long as tormented souls will them to exist, the realm will never be rid of primals.
The Maelstrom has kept a watchful eye upon the beast tribes─and the kobolds in particular─ever since.
Which brings us to the matter at hand.
Unlike Ifrit, we know scarcely anything of Titan.
Unfortunately, the only force known to have bested him─the modestly named “Company of Heroes”─disbanded five years since, and mercenaries are not in the habit of keeping chronicles.
Expect the worst.
The Maelstrom's help is of course appreciated, but even if we had their whole armada at our disposal, we could still find ourselves overmatched.
A pity the kobolds lack the gentle sensibilities of the sylphs. A peaceful resolution would be more than welcome.
The Echo will not avail you this time, I fear. If you are to survive, your steel must needs speak for you.
No one would think you a coward were you to decline.
So you will accept?
Thank you.
We can't very well send her to Limsa Lominsa without Y'shtola, can we, Minfilia?
May I ask that of you, Y'shtola?
I never thought it in question.
Ever reliable.
Very well. We will spare no effort to win victory.
You may count on the full support of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.
And all not afield will aid the fight from afar.
Thancred, Yda, go to the Grand Companies. Tell them of our plight and solicit their support.
Urianger, send word to the Students of Baldesion─and Alphinaud, if you would.
Papalymo, compile all the information we have on Titan, little though it may be.
You'll be apprised of the tactical situation when you reach the Sailors Ward.
Provision yourself for the journey. May you walk in the light of the Crystal.
