To the one true god!
To Zodiark!
To Zodiark!
To Zodiark!
The Archons have conducted a preliminary investigation into the origin of the roar that rang out during the celebration. Their findings strongly suggest that a new primal has appeared.
The roar generated a distinctive wave pattern in the aether, a pattern observed only once before in history─five years ago, to be precise. I should like to think it mere coincidence, yet we cannot discount that possibility... Well, I trust I need say no more.
At great sacrifice, we have delivered Eorzea from the threat posed by the Empire and the primals, and thereby secured peace. We cannot well allow the realm to be plunged into chaos once more.
You have given your all for our cause, risking life and limb on I know not how many occasions, yet our struggle continues, and we need you now no less than before.
Please continue to stand with us, and together we shall safeguard the future of the realm─of this very star!
...Hm? Forename. It pleases me to see you well.
Do excuse me for interrupting, Forename. My lady, the gentleman from Ashgana Exports has just left.
<sigh> I understand now why you didn't want to receive him.
You did well, Tataru. Please inform the guards that we will not be receiving any further guests this evening.
Thank you, my lady!
Ever since we defeated Gaius van Baelsar and destroyed his ultimate weapon, the eyes of the world have followed our every move, scarce remembering to blink.
Where once we worked in secret─with precious few friends and all too many enemies─we are now besieged by benefactors, each one more eager than the last to offer us his complete support.
A true embarrassment of riches...
Of course, every promise of patronage comes with a price.
Some make their intentions known from the start, while others endeavor to engage us more subtly. Dress it how they will, the message is ever the same: we shall help you, but only if you help us.
The gentleman Tataru spoke of was more brazen than most. In exchange for certain supplies, he would have us resolve a business dispute.
Naturally, I refused him, as I have every other merchant of his ilk... Alas, the Syndicate's overtures are not so easily rejected...
When we formed the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, it was with the goal of serving Eorzea, not the interests of individual Eorzeans. Our neutrality is fundamental to our cause.
In my heart, I know this to be true, and yet... And yet... If accepting these offers of patronage could empower us to do greater good, might they not warrant greater consideration?
Our Baldesion colleagues have been generous beyond measure, but we cannot expect them to─
Forgive me. I did not mean to burden you so.
Yet...my urge to share this dilemma may not be wholly misguided... Might I impose upon you to consult the others? They are like to have their own opinions on this matter.
Recall you our meeting with the Admiral, shortly after the Lominsans sent word of the summoning of Titan?
Then mayhap you also recall my words to our host. I said unto Merlwyb that her people had broken their treaty with the kobolds, and that the beastmen had justly responded─that we had been called to intervene in a conflict which she herself had invited. I spoke, in short, the truth.
And wherefore did I speak it? Because, owing no allegiance to Limsa, I felt no compulsion to allow the Lominsans to distort the facts to fit a narrative which justified their actions and absolved them of guilt.
Upon this subject, Minfilia can expect a similar reply. Our many dalliances with the city-states have already weakened our claim to neutrality, but the path she contemplates would see us relinquish it entirely.
Fortune begets power, and power fortune. That we─and especially you─have power is beyond doubt. The question is what to do with it...
You may be interested to know that there is a growing belief amongst the refugees that Ala Mhigo could be liberated...if only the Scions would commit their strength to the cause.
Yet theirs is but one of many causes. We stand at a crossroads, Forename. Each path is paved with good intentions, but where they lead is far from clear.
None can deny that we would benefit from more support, but if it comes at the cost of our principles?
Neutrality was ever a delicate matter. I've lost count of the times I've had to explain to people that our allegiances need not necessarily lie in the same place as our headquarters. Mind you, if we are to sell our services for gil, we might as well declare our fealty to Ul'dah now, and have done with it. I'm quite sure Yda would enjoy the bribes...
I've been receiving a lot of gifts lately, but Papalymo keeps making me send them back.
It wouldn't be so bad, but some of them are really nice! I mean, very nearly abandon-your-principles nice, you know?
'Tis the lot of the powerful to attract the covetous as well as the needy. Thus doth prudence dictate that those with power proffer aid with one hand whilst the other resteth ever on their hilt.
Alas, we have not the luxury of time to decipher our petitioners' machinations─nay, not while the beast tribes do labor unseen, defiant in defeat, to raise up their fallen primals once more.
Doubt not that they shall return─stronger and bolder both─nor that we shall be the ones to meet them. This sacred charge shall ever be ours. 'Tis but a pity we are so few, and our fortune so finite...
Hm. This situation is not wholly unexpected.
I too have given much thought to our organization's future...though it would seem I have reached a different conclusion.
Mayhap it is time I made my feelings known to the Antecedent. Come along, Forename.
Alphinaud, Forename? Is aught amiss?
You desired counsel, and so you shall have it. Minfilia─the Scions of the Seventh Dawn must leave Ul'dah.
We must do what?
So long as we remain within Ul'dahn territory, we will never be free to act with impunity.
Moving our headquarters to Vesper Bay only delayed the inevitable.
We have demonstrated our capabilities, and the Syndicate has taken note. They will not suffer our organization to remain independent now. We are far too dangerous for that.
Surely you realize they are the reason Vesper Bay still lacks an aetheryte?
They know full well how beneficial one would be to our cause...
Which is why it and other favors will be denied us unless we cooperate.
If Ul'dah is no longer suitable, where would you have us go?
Experience has taught us that the appearance of neutrality is as important as the reality.
Accordingly, we must keep each of the great nations at arm's length, and plant our banner in a place which all agree to be beyond their borders.
Mor Dhona.
Revenant's Toll, to be precise. It lies within neutral territory, and offers all the essential facilities we require. By way of an additional benefit, it is also frequented by a veritable legion of adventurers who may serve to supplement our ranks.
I am, of course, conscious of the fact that we have developed a certain bond with Ul'dah and her people over the years...
But I truly believe this to be the best course of action.
As you yourself observed, we have invaluable ties to the local community, forged through years of concerted effort. Ul'dah...Ul'dah is our home, Alphinaud! To cast aside everything we have built and start anew in that desolate wasteland would be beyond reckless!
The decision is yours to make, Antecedent. I ask only that you recall the shared purpose which first moved us to found the Scions of the Seventh Dawn─and which moved you to found the Path of the Twelve ere that.
We aspire to an ideal, you and I. Just as my grandfather did. That makes us more than mere comrades-in-arms.
We are as much your family as─
That will be all, Alphinaud.
I am sure you have some familial affairs of your own to attend to.
Your concern is most generous, but no─I have left them in the hands of men better suited to the task than I. I could not very well allow my personal affairs to come before the needs of the order, after all.
Leave Ul'dah... Has it truly come to this?
...Hm? Oh. Forename. Pray attend to Alphinaud.
He is engaged in some business or other and requires your assistance.
Pray be on your way. Alphinaud waits upon you, and I have much to think about.
Oh, and...tell him he shall have my answer in due time.
Confound it. She knows what must be done, and still she hesitates.
All because of these fanciful rumors.
Hm. I should explain. Minfilia's mother─well, adoptive mother─was among the great many who perished during the Calamity.
F'lhaminn was her name, though you may know her better as the “Songstress of Ul'dah.” She was a performer of singular talent, and much beloved by the people of Eorzea─not to mention a certain Sharlayan minstrel.
As you may imagine, the news of her passing was greeted with shock and disbelief by her adoring followers, many of whom refused to acknowledge what had happened. That her body was never found only served to encourage speculation.
Minfilia, too, struggled at first to accept the truth, but as F'lhaminn's absence stretched from months into years, she saw that there could be no other explanation.
Until recently, at any rate. For whatever reason, rumors have once again begun to circulate that F'lhaminn is alive and well.
One of our informants, Father Iliud, has sent word that a woman matching the songstress's description has been seen of late at the seaside resort of Costa del Sol.
If we could succeed in tracking her down, I have no doubt that any worries that now plague Minfilia's heart might be assuaged.
I mean to set forth for La Noscea at once. Let us reconvene there and inquire with Master Gegeruju as to the veracity of these rumors.
<sigh> O sweet siren of the sands, my Miqo'te muse! Why have you forsaken me...?
T-Titan's Bane! I mean, Forename! What brings you to my humble resort?
F'lhaminn!? You mean to tell me the goddess made flesh who dwelt among us until so very recently was the Songstress of Ul'dah!? Egads, woman─if I had known that, I would've chained her to my bedpost and never let her leave!
Oh, for shame! To think that she now plies her trade for the riffraff off to the west or wherever she said she was going! It's a tragedy, I say! A tragedy!
West, is it? Thank you, Master Gegeruju. Your information will serve us well.
That said, there are any number of places she could be. I shall begin my search by the docks and see if any witnesses might have some knowledge to spare. I would be most appreciative if you could travel on to Wineport and do the same.
...Eh? You want to know if I've seen a Miqo'te lass by the name of F'lhaminn? I wish! I haven't seen a lass of any description for far too bloody long... Er, excepting yourself, of course.
Well, if it isn't Forename, the savior of Wineport! To what do we owe the pleasure?
Ah, yes, we did receive a customer matching that description. She was a delight to behold, to give the woman her due, but her perfume was so ghastly, I had no choice but to eject her from the premises. Interfering with tastings, you understand.
If she is your quarry, why not consult your blind associate? His olfactory perception is without peer. Given that I could smell the woman from a malm away, I daresay he could smell her from ten.
<sniff> <sniff> I see you have had many grand adventures since last we spoke, Forename. You must share them with me sometime.
The girl from a little while ago? One does not forget a perfume like that. So robust and intoxicating...yet simultaneously familiar. Reminiscent of a bloom native to these parts, in fact.
I said as much when we spoke. She complimented my powers of observation and asked me where she might find some of the flowers.
So I told her to follow the road south into Raincatcher Gully and then head east after crossing the second bridge. The flowers which grow in the shade of the cliff have the strongest scent, you see. If you make haste, you may yet find her there.
