Allin chi'si. Welcome, friend. I take it you will remain in these woods for some time, yes?
Be wary of these woods, you will find poison in near everything you see. But fear not─our medicinal tea will keep you healthy. Ask and it is yours.
Everyone was so kind and gracious...
I was nervous at first, but already I'm starting to feel at home.
There is still much I have to learn about the Night's Blessed, but their faith and strength of will is nothing short of inspiring.
I can see now how they've built such a thriving community...
Ah, you are returned. Very good.
No doubt they were glad of your company. It has been too long since we have had visitors.
Remember: if you have any questions, or there is anything you need, do not hesitate to ask.
Speaking of which, we must arrange food and lodgings for your stay.
As friends of Master Matoya, we cannot ask for payment, but if you would be willing to lend a hand...?
We are fortunate indeed to play host to such generous souls. The task I have in mind is simple enough.
Come now, it is but a single task. As reward, I will give you an extra helping of my famous stew at dinner!
All I ask is that you take a jug and water the crops in the square.
May I help too?
Of course! One of you can do the filling, and the other the watering.
Speak with Ersabel when you have finished. She will be relieved to hear the crops have been tended to.
While you take care of that, I will see to your room and a warm meal.
Right, then. I'll fill, you water!
This was the only jug I could find which was small enough to lift, but I'm afraid there's a crack in the bottom.
You'll need to hurry to the garden before all the water leaks out.
You'll need to hurry to the garden before all the water leaks out.
You'll need to hurry to the garden before all the water leaks out.
Was there enough water for the plot?
Only half? I see. Well, let me refill the jug for you.
Only half? I see. Well, let me refill the jug for you.
Only half? I see. Well, let me refill the jug for you.
