You want to fly an amaro to Kholusia? Well, I suppose if Master Djenmai is going with you...
Wait here, please. The master should be along with the mounts shortly.
The whistling breeze, mute. The pounding surf, frozen. Time itself takes a breath...
At Light's edge, all is perfectly still. The world captured in a painting; locked in a moment.
Music, faint and fleeting, drifts coastward on the lifeless air...
And in the distance, beyond the broken earth, a city beckons...
We are arrived. This is Cracked Shell Beach, on the eastern coast of Kholusia. You should be safe here for the present.
Compared to the mainland, sin eater attacks are far less prevalent. And the native beasts are not any more dangerous than elsewhere.
It is the people you should be wary of...
Spy you that city in the distance? That is Eulmore, the island's main settlement.
It rivals the Crystarium in scale, and was once an ally in our battle against the abominations.
For years, the Eulmoran elite have fancied themselves the masters of what remains of our broken world. They have gone as far as to offer the leaders of other settlements their protection─if we bend the knee.
But to say their ideals are questionable would be putting it mildly. The Crystarium is one among many who resist their heavy-handed authority, and while we are not at war, our relationship with Eulmore is strained at best.
It may be wise to conceal your ties with the Exarch during your stay here, especially in the vicinity of the city.
I am glad we understand each other.Now, the Exarch has instructed me to divulge a secret that should make finding your friend a good deal easier. Listen closely...
...If you head south along the coast, you will eventually come to a fisherman's shack.
A friend of the Crystarium lives there─a man who goes by the name of “Eybor.”
Eybor keeps an eye on everything that happens in Kholusia, and will be able to point you in the right direction. Just hand him a sprig of thyme─that will let him know you can be trusted.
Here─this should be enough. Find your friend. I will stay here with the amaro until you are ready to return.
