Yes, it was quite a display.
Yes, it was quite a display.
Yes, it was quite a display.
If it ain't me old pal Forename. 'Ere to beg the old bird fer guidance, too, are ye?
S'dhodjbi said you 'ad an 'and in this year's fireworks. And not a bad job ye made of 'em, neither.
You met S'dhodjbi down in Hawker's Alley, aye? I sent 'er to pick up some stock fer the Wench, but d'ye know what she brought me back? Only a bottle o' bleedin' Bacchus! Paid fer it out of 'er own pocket, she did─to thank me again fer savin' 'er life.
Don't know why she's so 'ung up about it. The girl's paid me back an 'undred times over with all 'er 'ard work over the years. Felt a bit bad acceptin' it, like, but, well...a bottle o' Bacchus is a bottle o' Bacchus...
Reckon it's you we should be thankin', anyway, fer that marvellous display.
All the ships in the 'arbor, the fire in the sky, it brought back a lot of memories. Some good, some bad...but every one of 'em well worth rememberin'.
And we ain't done makin' 'em yet! You'll be off on yer next adventure soon enough, I wager? Well, you can't rightly be stridin' out on an empty stomach, now, can ye? Come up to the Wench, and we'll fill yer belly!
Well, well, well. I come to feel Llymlaen's breath on me face, only to find the faithless besom whisperin' in the ear of another!
'Old on, you're that adventurer Ayoyo told me about, ain't ye?
Well, well, well. I come to feel Llymlaen's breath on me face, only to find the faithless besom whisperin' in the ear of another! How've ye been keepin', Forename?
I 'ear we've got you to thank fer the Risin' display. Ayoyo's been singin' yer praises from Fisherman's Bottom to the Coral Tower.
What? Surprised I know 'er? Limsa's a small place, lasslad. 'Ardly a day goes by I don't see a Yellowjacket or several in the Bismarck─whether it's to sup on the finest food and wine this side o' the sea, or to clap the irons on those who've tapped the casks a touch too thirstily.
S'pose an adventurer like you mightn't've noticed, always comin' an' goin' as ye are, but stick around in the city fer a while an' you'll see─the 'Jackets ain't just axes fer 'ire, they're true friends o' the common folk.
Ayoyo was a retainer before the Calamity struck, ye know. 'Er master 'ad a thing fer fireworks. Every time they came back from their wanderin's, they'd load 'er down with an 'undredweight of spouts and spinners they'd picked up from gods know where.Day and night you'd see 'er down in the market ward, beamin' that sunny smile of 'ers at every passer-by, tryin' 'er damndest to flog the stuff.
Enjoyed the work, I reckon...but then Dalamud fell, and she lost 'er master. Literally lost 'em. The way she tells it, it were as if the Calamity burned an 'ole in 'er memory an' they fell straight through. Couldn't remember their face, nor their name.
But she never forgot the fireworks. The amount o' gunpowder that went through 'er 'ands over the years, she couldn't 'elp learnin' a bit about makin' things go bang. An apprenticeship with the cannoneers later, and she was a Yellowjacket.
So when I 'eard they were the ones who'd been put in charge o' the Risin' display, I knew she'd be first to volunteer. The Risin', the fireworks, they mean a lot to 'er...an' as a friend, they mean a lot to me. So thank you.
Forename. This is a coincidence.
Reyner was just telling me of the role you played in putting the display together. I'm sure all those who gathered in my city to witness it were as moved as I.
A salute to all those who set sail for new adventures. It shall surely resound in their hearts, and give them strength and courage in the year to come.
And a salute to the fallen, too, was it not? Many and more lost their lives on the fields of Carteneau─the men and women of the Black Sails chief among them. I thank you for giving those who survived them this chance to put their grief to more productive ends.
I thank you for giving the celebrations an unmistakable touch of salt, too. This year's Rising was not merely in Limsa Lominsa, but of her. I look forward to seeing how future host cities follow our example.
But for now, let us focus on the present. I'm sure I have kept you from your business for far too long already, and I must return to mine. I must offer my prayer to Llymlaen and be on my way.
Fare you well, Forename. I wish you safe voyages for the year to come. May the Navigator's breath ever fill your sails.
If it isn't my old mate Forename! I heard you had a hand in the fireworks, but I thought you'd be long gone by now.
I'm glad you stuck around, though. Gives me a chance to thank you.
For getting the Executioners involved, like. Can't say you didn't run us ragged, gettin' the whole fleet loaded up with a ten-tonze of firesand an' ready to sail at a moment's notice...
But it was well worth it in the end! Aye, there's nothin' a pirate enjoys more than a bit of the old pyrotechnics. The perfect send-off for shipmates past and present.
Even got me in the guts, so it did. Most Risin's I spend at the bottom of a flagon, thinkin' of those we lost and saltin' my grog...but this salute's only gone an' put the wind in my sails! I'm uppin' anchor tomorrow in search of an island sanctuary of me own! Somewhere to bury me booty!
Wish me luck, Forename, and may Llymlaen's breath ever blow at your back!
