<bleep> <bloop> Error. Error. Download...complete. User registration...c-c-confirmed.
Dauntless adventurers, I bid you welcome to Asyle Volcane, the sanctuary of the strong! Fight with courage and honor, that your legend may resound forevermore in the Arena of Valor!
<gulp> It's only an illusion... It's only an illusion...
What's this, now? Don't tell me you're afraid of the lava?
N-Not on your life! I-It isn't even real, is it?
Oh, definitely not. But don't take my word for it─jump in and see for yourself.
N-No need. I-I believe you.
That there is the terminal.
You can get to it via the caverns that run through the volcano.
I'll go on ahead and wait for you. Take care around the wildlife, now!
Hey, Erenville?
I'll explore alone. You needn't worry─I'll give the wildlife a wide berth.
Poor Erenville... He's still coming to terms with it.
You can hardly blame him. Let's leave him be for now.
Come on, let's get moving ourselves.
The mechanical soldiers are as common here as they are in Solution Nine. I wonder how long ago they were created.
Right would seem to be the more direct path to the terminal, but I must say I'm curious about that building on the left.
Looks like we have two paths to choose from. I thought I saw Cahciua heading left, though.
While that would seem to be a detour, I must say I'm rather curious about that round building.
Well, I'm always up for the scenic route. Let's follow after Cahciua and see what the building's about!
Found her!
Erenville is...elsewhere, of course.
A round building with seating for spectators... Might this be a fighting arena?
Well now, look who came this way too. Great minds, as they say!
This appears to be a fighting arena. Is it also a recreation of an actual place?
In all likelihood. While I don't know the details, I understand such facilities were once common across the land.
Though it's closed at the moment, even Solution Nine has the Arcadion. It may well be a legacy of the past.
Anyway, it seems the next match is about to begin. As I've already spectated my fill, I will move on, but you ought to head inside for a look!
That rather resembles arcanima, wouldn't you agree?
Indeed. While similar arts could have developed independently across reflections, this verges on being identical.
Is something wrong?
What!?
