Whassat? New to Eulmore, you say?
Gahaha! Only just arrived and already you're looking to peel away the layers of mystery. Oh, I'm all for chatting, but you need to slow down and enjoy life, my friend!
I tell you what: you hop up on stage and give us a dance first, and then we can have our little talk!
That's the way! Dance like there's no tomorrow!
<whistle> Now that was a show! You're welcome to clamber up on stage any time you like!
So...what was it you wanted to ask me? Ah, yes, something about our fair city. Well, I can tell you it wasn't always so peaceful as it is today.
The Eulmoran Army may be the very essence of military might, but even our forces saw grievous losses in the war against the sin eaters.
Things changed for us, oh, around twenty years ago now, when the old ruler's son came to power!
He's got this way with the eaters, you see─turns them docile as house cats. I wouldn't be exaggerating to say they've become something of an ally to Eulmore. No longer an enemy to be feared.
And yet elsewhere, there are still fools who insist on fighting their losing battles... Pah! A toast to Lord Vauthry!
And yet elsewhere, there are still fools who insist on fighting their losing battles... Pah! A toast to Lord Vauthry!
Oh, you've returned from your jaunt around the city? So soon?
You needn't have hurried back─young Alphinaud has yet to put brush to canvas.
One cannot rush good art, I'm told. Or good artists, apparently...
...Ah, finally.
I've put together an ensemble out of the garments you chose. Is this satisfactory?
Oh, goodness gracious me! That last outfit was precious, but this makes you look positively dashing!
You truly are a handsome boy! However am I to decide!?
Exactly! The lad is an artist, dearest, not a dress-up doll. It's about time we set him to work for the reason we called him here!
...Must we? I do love a good painting, but I thought since we were enjoying ourselves so thoroughly...
Well, I'd not─ That is to say, as long as you...
Ugh. Just...make sure you give the lad time to prepare. We know who'll be upset if he's not ready to paint at a moment's notice.
Whatever you say, darling. So! Shall we pick out some jewelry, next!?
(Lady Chai has a very particular sense of beauty, and apparently that extends to how I should dress whilst painting...)
(But this obsession of hers works in our favor. The time I spend indulging these distractions is time you can use to continue your explorations.)
(For this excursion, I'd like you to delve into the layer below us, and sniff about the military headquarters. I'm sure the Understory has its own tale to tell...)
