Wait, aren't you the Scions of the Seventh Dawn? Or were, rather─I understand you've disbanded...?
An audience with Lord Fourchenault? You are in luck. The Forum has just this moment adjourned, and he is still inside with the scholarch.
Please wait here while I inform them of your presence.
Apologies to have kept you. I trust you won't object if Scholarch Montichaigne also attends.
My incorrigible children... Were you not assisting with Garlemald's reconstruction?
Our hosts were most insistent that we take a rest, so here we are. But more importantly, Forename has news that she would share with you.
So the threat has passed! These are glad tidings indeed.
Harnessing Light from the First. A technological triumph...that could have ended in catastrophic failure.
But let us not dwell on hypotheticals.
Like the aether from the Isle of Haam, you employed the Light for peaceful─albeit unanticipated─purposes.
“Knowledge exists to serve the greater good,” as my father was fond of saying. I'm inclined to agree─in this instance.
It has been established that world-ending crises in the reflections are connected to calamities in the Source.
As such, the strides you made in understanding the nature of and effecting a change in a reflection may one day prove vital for mankind's preservation.
The Forum will be eager to review your accounts thoroughly, for every drop of water serves to swell the great river of knowledge.
Might we prevail upon you to prepare a comprehensive report, Y'shtola? On the subjects of the void and cross-rift travel both.
It would be my pleasure.
We will share these tidings with those who aided you─Kokkol Dankkol not least of all. Now, if you'll excuse us, we must be on our way.
I should be glad to speak with you both later.
If I heard correctly, it seems you've saved the world yet again!
Although Master Louisoix hath left us, he liveth on in his teachings. 'Tis gratifying to see that Master Fourchenault, too, hath come to acknowledge the wisdom in them.
I look forward to telling my father of our efforts in Garlemald. He will have sage counsel to offer, I'm sure.
You're of course welcome at our home─Mother, for one, would be thrilled to have you─but I won't twist your arm if you have other matters to attend to.
If I didn't know better, I'd say father dearest is warming to us. I've no interest in sipping tea at the family estate again, though. Drinks at the tavern, on the other hand...
With that, our obligations here are concluded.
Oh, Nidhana. What news from Thavnair?
They've returned, then? Wonderful. Rest assured all is well with us too.
...Is that so?
We would be honored, of course. I shall relay this to the others.
A great feast will be held in Radz-at-Han to celebrate Azdaja's homecoming. We have all been invited.
I'm afraid my sister and I must decline. We have only just returned home; to leave again so soon would be inconsiderate to our parents.
With regret, I too must excuse myself from attendance. A prior commitment requireth that I remain in Sharlayan for a time.
Let not our absence deter you, however. Pray enjoy yourselves to the fullest.
I've no plans in particular, so you can count me in. I may as well visit the Radiant Host while I'm there.
How about you, Forename?
That's the spirit.
Ah, but what about the memoria crystal? 'Twould be remiss of us not to deliver it promptly to our friends in the First.
Ah, of course. The memoria crystal. 'Twould be remiss of us not to deliver it promptly to our friends.
Also, if they are to transfer Light and Dark between worlds, they will need command over the Crystal Tower.
In which case, I shall give you my spirit vessel to take again. When you arrive in the Crystarium, the sentry at the tower should be able to round up everyone for you.
Once you have seen to matters there, come and join us at Meghaduta.
Give everyone our regards, you hear?
Welcome back, madam. Mistress Ryne is still in the Ocular. Will you be joining her?
Very good. If you would care to head inside, I shall send for Captain Lyna and Beq Lugg at once.
Ah yes, the king has already shared what they glimpsed in the Source. The day is won, and the danger passed.
Hearing the tidings lifted a great weight from my shoulders. Never before had I taken on such a monumental request.
Small though it was, we are glad to have played a role in saving the Exarch's home, and yours.
Furthermore, the endeavor served to reaffirm the bond between the peoples of Norvrandt.
Nurturing this bond, we will strive to be an example for the world Zero aspires to restore.
Is that...a memoria crystal? I can feel it... The tremendous Darkness within...
Using Darkness from the void to restore balance to this world... If such a thing could be done...!
Well, well... Though night has returned to our world, Darkness cannot arise of its own accord, much less in abundance.
But if it could be brought here in like manner to how we channeled Light to the void, it may well be possible to restore the Empty in its entirety!
Do you still have that spirit vessel with you?
If so, I beg you loan it to me for a time. I would use it to investigate a way to have the tower receive rather than send energy.
Thank you. While I make no promises at this stage, I shall rigorously explore the possibility.
I too need to explore new possibilities for my powers. My recent experience at Nabaath Areng has taught me that.
To that end, I will set aside botany for a time, and focus instead on myself.
Knowing Zero is out there, doing her utmost to restore her own world... It inspires me to redouble my efforts!
For so long I was loath to trust in others, fearful of my research being misused again. That it may serve noble ends comes as a relief. I shall spare no effort to restore balance between Light and Dark!
A brighter tomorrow awaits. Zero's Light will shine the way.
It was a mighty struggle, but I had faith that you would be victorious in the end.
And I doubt not that the people of Norvrandt will cheer when they learn that the Warrior of Darkness managed to save her home.
I know you are a busy woman, so don't let us keep you. Rest assured that we will continue the work we've begun.
If the Crystal Tower is to be used for research, it may be prudent to bolster its security.
It is the Exarch's legacy, and we must spare no effort to keep it safe.
Mistress Surname, you honor us with your presence!
Though I am but a humble servant, I offer you my heartfelt thanks for rescuing the satrap's beloved sister.
But without further ado, the great feast to celebrate this joyous occasion is about to begin! The venue is Mehryde's Meyhane, and you are a guest of honor!
It cannot be...
Oh, Varshahn, my darling little brother... To think that I will never see you again...
The way you carry on, anyone would think he was actually your brother...
Save your tears, now. His Excellency still has one of his eyes.
And he has made it clear he intends to continue using his vessel. You'll see Varshahn again, never fear!
Truly? But...will it be the little one?
Personally, I prefer the adult vessel. It cuts a gallant figure, and has superior functionality besides.
Bah, I don't care about such things!
My little brother is...
Little! And adorable!
Sisters, give me strength...
'Tis a fine thing being so loved.
Had enough of the revelry, have you?
So, what's next for our hero?
No need to decide just yet. You'll recall our escapades in the void began with a treasure map I paid entirely too much gil for.
You can't force an adventure. It'll happen when it happens, and you'll know when the time is right.
Till then, it's good to lend an ear to others and their tales. And speaking of others...
Discussing each other's plans, are we?
Alas, I have nothing exciting to share. I foresee an extended confinement in my Sharlayan chambers, compiling my theories on cross-rift travel.
My research may be classified, prohibited by the powers that be...
But so long as a bond exists between people, ever shall our worlds be connected. As it stands, a means to travel to the First is within reach, and I would be satisfied even should my research not exist in an official capacity.
And what of you, Estinien? Have you any plans?
He never was one to stay put for long. Though I've no doubt he will make himself known when needed.
'Twas a lively feast, was it not? And it impressed upon me once again how dear Vrtra is to his people.
Well, as much as I should like to linger, 'tis past time I took my leave. If you mean to depart as well, I suggest you call on Vrtra before setting out.
And before I forget─thank you. For everything we learned, and for everything we accomplished, I couldn't be more grateful.
Till next time, take care.
Vrtra's friend... I thank thee.
Vrtra's friend... I thank thee.
Forename, I hope you enjoyed the festivities. To be able to celebrate Azdaja's return with everyone was...moving beyond words.
Lest you wonder, I've chosen to use this vessel for now, the better to escort my sister about Radz-at-Han.
This leaves my true form without an eye, but I do not anticipate having need of it in the immediate future.
Long have I dreamed of showing Azdaja my beautiful city, a glittering jewel born of unity. And I shall relish every moment of it.
Now then, I believe both Y'shtola and Estinien have embarked on their respective journeys, but have you yourself business elsewhere?
If not, you are welcome to remain here as long as you like. Should aught of import arise, we will inform you─but until such a day arrives, I bid you take your ease.
If not, you are welcome to remain here as long as you like. Should aught of import arise, we will inform you─but until such a day arrives, I bid you take your ease.
Everything appears to be in order...
Finished at last.
So time-consuming... How nice would it be to have a mammet to handle such tasks.
Now then, let's have a look at you.
Quite old, this letter. We'll need to store it carefully.
Addressed to Grandfather! And come all the way from Tuliyollal, from a Guloo...someone.
The ink's too faded. Hardly anything is legible.
Come on, give me something...
A commission to investigate the golden city...in Tural!?
How odd... No one ever mentioned such a commission, nor have I seen any records.
Hm? Something else in here...
What an unusual earring. How does it relate to the petition, I wonder...
Did you go there, Grandfather? To the golden city, in Tural?
Back again already, after making a show of leaving...
Well, this is it. Sharlayan.
Quite a far cry from Tuliyollal, yes?
Come, let's go and find your candidate─our adventurer friend.
Radz-at-Han... Home...
Ah, Forename. One of my clerks was just here with a message for you.
The Students of Baldesion request your presence in Sharlayan at your earliest convenience.
Indebted as I am to our friends, I had hoped that I too might be of service, but it is you alone that they require.
If you've no pressing business, pray make your way to the Baldesion Annex at once. Ojika awaits your arrival.
In the meantime, I shall continue showing Azdaja the city. From notable landmarks to the people's lives, there is still much and more for her to see.
Farewell for now, my friend. I look forward to the day we set forth on another adventure together.
A warm and hearty welcome to you, Forename! I gather you received our message?
Please wait here while I fetch Krile and G'raha.
Thank you for coming on such short notice.
And forgive us for sending for you so soon after your trials in the void.
Now then, we aren't actually the ones who require your presence, but Erenville.
He stopped by recently, you see, and asked us to reach out to you on his behalf.
I imagine you're as surprised as we are, given that he was supposed to be away on a long expedition.
Something must have necessitated a change in his plans.
All he would tell me is that there is someone whom he wishes Forename to meet.
He also mentioned that he would be tending to business at the Studium. Shall we look for him there?
Erenville's early return likely has something to do with this visitor. Who could it be, I wonder...
Now then, where is Erenville?
Erenville!
Apologies for the wait. I hope I haven't called you away from anything important.
I chanced upon some commissioned items at my destination, so I thought I might deliver them.
Where did you go, if I may ask?
The New World─Tural.
You went to Tural!? Then the person who you wished to introduce...
Aye, she hails from there. I present to you...
...It seems you've lost her.
Did she wander off?
