So, the thing about spicy foods is...
I'm satisfied.
I did not expect so many to take up the challenge, but I am glad to see everyone enjoying themselves.
Welcome back.
Master Estinien? Yes, he has returned to his chambers. I shall be happy to escort you.
Estinien, are you there? We've brought something for you.
Aye... Enter...
Squid masala from the meyhane. I thought you might enjoy it.
Masala, eh? I prefer my squid dried, but I'm sure it won't disappoint. My thanks.
Idle as I am in our sorceress's absence, I see. I can't offer much in the way of entertainment, but make yourselves comfortable.
Shall we disrobe as well?
No, no. We simply caught our friend unprepared. He will make himself presentable at once, I am sure.
At last. We've been looking for you.
My friends! Tell me─were you able to devise a way to return to the Thirteenth?
I believe so. It required a visit to the moon, where I took the opportunity to enlist Urianger's assistance.
Y'shtola hath told me all. I should be glad to help you free Azdaja and put an end to Golbez's dark plot.
If Rubicante spoke true, both Golbez and Azdaja are on the moon of the Thirteenth.
Unlike here in the Source, however, we have no means of making the journey from the surface of the star itself. The technology simply does not exist.
Therefore, I propose that we employ a gate to deliver us directly to our destination.
Is such a feat possible?
In theory. Having once been a single whole, the Source and its reflections share striking similarities in geography.
And according to a certain someone who unceremoniously whisked us away to the First, the same locations across the worlds are intrinsically bound.
All of which is to say, were we to pass through a gate on the Source's moon, it should lead us to the moon of the Thirteenth.
Of course, there is the risk of voidsent gaining entry to our world. Thus did I decide to seek Urianger's counsel.
Both the watcher and the Loporrits are aware of our proposed endeavor. While they are yet deliberating precautionary measures, they have pledged their full cooperation.
You've been busy. I presume you've also found a way to open this gate?
Be it in Radz-at-Han or Sharlayan, scholars have long cast their gaze unto the endless dark of the void.
And so, with Hannish insights to augment our knowledge, we have indeed conceived of a promising plan to pierce the veil.
A plan I am confident will succeed precisely because the moon is our stage.
The preparations will be extensive, and we will require vast quantities of aether.
After all, our gate must be large enough to accommodate another great wyrm.
My proposal entails delivering copious amounts of aether to the Tower of Babil in Garlemald.
As you will recall, Fandaniel used the structure to destroy the brands imprisoning Zodiark.
And we, in like manner, will use it to channel aether to the moon─and thereby open our gate.
I see... Then we shall need someone on the moon for the necessary rituals.
Just so, Your Excellency. I intend to head back anon for that very purpose, as well as to help devise our strategy to deal with invading voidsent.
Along with our lunar allies, we will once again require the assistance of your alchemists, Nidhana not least of all.
May I trouble you to serve as their escort?
Fine by me. The room was beginning to feel constraining.
For my part, I shall oversee the requisite tasks on the star. Might I prevail upon you for your assistance?
If all are in agreement, then let us set to work.
We'll open our gate. And we will stop Golbez.
You have no shortage of allies at your disposal.
I cannot thank you enough for your constant support.
If one and all are ready, then let us set forth, our preparations to complete.
If I may, I beg a moment to exchange this vessel for its grown counterpart. It is in the keeping of alchemists of the High Crucible.
Of course. We shall accompany thee thither, and thence begin our journey.
Opening a gate is about as difficult as I expected.
My apologies for the delay.
My, that is a striking simulacrum indeed. Well suited to the work ahead, I doubt not.
Allow me to explain Y'shtola's plan in greater detail.
As you know, we seek to open a voidgate in Mare Lamentorum, that we might gain direct passage to the moon of the Thirteenth.
Whilst our comrades labor upon the moon, we must needs accomplish two tasks.
The first is the procurement of a substantial quantity of aether, and subsequent delivery of it unto the Tower of Babil.
Said structure was once used to siphon the land's essence by way of the Telophoroi's spires.
Such a method, however, doth pose an unacceptable risk to the greater aetherial balance of our world. Thus must we seek an alternate means of conveying our requisite resource.
Our second task doth pertain to the use of the Tower of Babil itself.
You may recall that this portal unto the moon was placed under the supervision of the Ilsabard contingent.
If we would employ it to different ends, we must first obtain the contingent's express permission.
I should like to believe they would not refuse us, so perhaps we should concern ourselves with the aether problem first. Have you any idea whence we might source the vast quantity needed?
Aye, a likely location doth come to mind. Let us make for the airship landing─there, I shall reveal more.
I am most keen to know more of Urianger's potential solution. In the worst case, I was prepared to offer one of my eyes, but it seems it will not come to that.
I sometimes come here for the view. It's...beautiful.
All are present and accounted for? Excellent. We shall travel to Sharlayan, and thence seek the nearby Isle of Haam.
Near unto the surface of this isle do rivers of aether converge. The churning energy of this confluence is released by the way of geysers.
Originally, the Ragnarok was to be powered by aether harvested from the isle...
But as well you know, an alternate power source was ultimately found for the vessel.
Passage unto Ultima Thule─to the very limits of existence─was facilitated by naught less than the strength of the Mothercrystal Herself.
As such, the Isle of Haam's vast aether deposits remain untouched. We may help ourselves to that energy─provided we are able to secure the Forum's permission.
Yet again with needing permission. Is nothing straightforward in this world?
Such is the nature of politics, I fear. And as the Scions of the Seventh Dawn have been “officially” disbanded, no longer are we a recognized collective. A somewhat disadvantaged position, bureaucratically speaking.
Fortunately, however, there is a recognized and respected body upon which we might prevail: the Students of Baldesion. Upon arriving in Sharlayan, let us seek our friends at the annex.
An island literally bursting with aether... That's the sort of paradise voidsent dream of.
While Mistress Krile hath burdens enough of her own, we may be confident she will do her utmost to assist us.
When last I came here, it was to deliver my sire's scales. How long ago it seems now...
Welcome back, Forename! What brings you here today? And in such colorful company...
Greetings, Ojika. On this occasion, we are come to seek the Students' assistance in a matter of some urgency.
In that case, you'll want to speak with Krile. She's in the main hall, sorting through our archives.
There's a visitor with her at the moment, but it's no one you don't know, so feel free to show yourself in!
Well, now, if it isn't two of my dearest friends. As for the other two... I don't believe we've had the pleasure.
Not in this vessel, perhaps. 'Tis I, Varshahn...though you are welcome to call me Vrtra, if you prefer.
Pay me no mind. I merely accompany them.
I pray you forgive us our intrusion. If you are occupied, we shall call again anon.
It's quite all right. We've just finished swapping all our secrets anyway.
Erenville occasionally comes and shares the latest gleaner gossip, you see.
From forgotten ruins to mysterious relics, if there's aught that might be of interest to the Students, he kindly lets us know.
Alas, I must soon depart on an expedition.
As I may be away for an extended period, I wished to give Krile fair warning. Hence my visit today.
I see. There are specimens that want for procuring, I presume?
No, no, it isn't guildship business, but rather...
A homecoming.
But enough about me. You have business too, yes? And I am in the way.
Far from it. As a matter of fact, we should be grateful if you could stay and share your knowledge of the nearby isles with us.
We seek a means to travel to the void. There, a man named Golbez plots to invade our world. A man who even now holds my sister hostage...
...To that end, we require a great quantity of aether, which we understand may be had on the Isle of Haam. We came in the hope of exploring how it might best be procured.
An invasion from the Thirteenth? Must the stakes always be so dramatic...
You have a knack for finding trouble.
If gleaners collected world-ending crises, you could make quite a name for yourself in our profession.
It's true the Isle of Haam is a veritable font of aether. But as it's under the Forum's direct jurisdiction, only a privileged few get to set foot there. I myself haven't.
So if we want to help ourselves to the isle's aether, we'll need to secure the Forum's permission.
Very well. The Students of Baldesion recognize your endeavors as combating a grave threat to the world. As representative, I hereby pledge our full assistance.
Now that it's official, you may leave the politics and paperwork to me. Our operations remain small, but we shouldn't meet any undue resistance.
We are truly grateful!
If I may.
According to the original plan for the exodus, aether collected from the Isle of Haam was to power the ark.
Art thou perchance familiar with the logistics of this endeavor?
I don't know anything about that, I'm afraid, nor do I think any gleaner would. You might have better luck asking someone involved with the ark's construction.
Margrat, for instance. She's a researcher in Sharlayan Hamlet. I met with her for a job recently, and she mentioned working on the Ragnarok's propulsion system.
You could do worse than to seek her out while awaiting the Forum's verdict.
We may well do just that. Our gratitude for thine advice, and may this threat be but a memory upon thy return.
You're quite welcome. Now then, if you'll excuse me.
I'd best start drafting our petition! Go on and find your researcher─I'll contact you as soon as we've made progress.
Let us leave matters here to Mistress Krile, and hie ourselves to Labyrinthos.
Right, then. Time to put our best foot forward.
A pity you can't tidy yourself. I should've had Y'shtola enchant you when I had the chance.
And what have we here?
Later, Krile. Later. You've work to do!
Worry not, I shall pen our petition at once and submit it to the Forum!
Though it is not the first time I have seen it, I remain in awe of this sky's magnificence. Never did it occur to me that such an expansive facsimile was within men's power to create.
I believe we have found our researcher.
Visitors? How delightful! If you require assistance, then ask away! It so happens you've caught me in postdeadline bliss.
Forgive us the abruptness of our inquiry, but 'tis our understanding that thou had charge of the Ragnarok's propulsion systems.
We should like to know how aether harvested at the Isle of Haam was to be stored and transported to the ark. If the disclosure of such information is permitted.
Oh, it's no bother at all. We built special tanks that can store aether just like we use casks to store wine. Simple, really!
Simple, but quite brilliant in construction. They rivaled even crystals for aetherial capacity. A pity we never got to use them.
Aaah, how muddled and distant the memory. When doom's deadline loomed large, and we extricated ourselves from a waist-high mire of work only to end up chin-deep in another...
I was at one with the world, a conduit for the energies of creation, but now─now I am truly alive! Who would have thought that sleeping in a bed and eating warm meals could make such a difference!
Why, I feel positively functional! I daresay it rivals the thrill of dancing on the knife-edge of failure! Ahahahahaha!
...We are glad for you. Quite. On the subject of the aether tanks, do you know what became of them?
Er... What did become of them? For the life of me, I can't seem to remember...
Oh, but I do remember someone who might remember! He should be back by now. Just look for the fellow wearing an outfit that screams, “I've been on vacation and you haven't!”
Very well, we shall seek out this conspicuous colleague of thine. Our sincerest gratitude, Margrat, and do look after thyself.
Come, let us seek out this individual attired in a manner suggestive of recent furlough.
Aaah, life outside of work─what a concept! Ahahahahaha!
If we can avail ourselves of these tanks, we shall be well on our way to securing the aether we require.
...All is well, and I pray 'tis the same with thee and thine. Now, dost thou perchance know of one recently returned from a vacation?
I do not know what a “vacation” is...but that man strikes me as more relaxed than most.
The face that launched our teeny-tiny toy boat! How've you been, Forename? Able to catch a bit of rest?
Well, if I don't know about the aether tanks, who in Byregot's name would? Born right in me very own workshop, they were.
A pleasure as always, Master Kokkol. I trust thy respite proved rejuvenating?
And then some! But I won't bore you with the details─at least not without a drink in me. So! Why the interest in our little ol' tanks?
Permit me to explain...
I see, I see... Think I've got the long and short of it.
It goes without sayin', but we all owe you more than we can ever repay. If you need our aether tanks, then they're at your disposal.
There's just one problem: you need the Forum's approval to set foot on the Isle of Haam. Were it up to me, you'd be on the next ship out, but that lot can't wipe their arses unless it's in accordance with procedural motions.
You may be assured that my backside is immaculate.
Thaliak's thumpin' thighs─er, Master Fourchenault! A-And Scholarch Montichaigne! What a...what a surprise!
Pardon the intrusion. The Forum has deliberated your petition, and we decided to deliver our verdict directly.
You have been granted special dispensation to travel to the Isle of Haam for the purposes of aetheric extraction─on one condition.
On account of its rich deposits of aether, the isle is home to throngs of vicious beasts. We ask that you cull any such creatures you encounter.
...That's all? Given the vast amount of aether we seek, I expected a far higher price.
Oh, believe me─we do not underestimate the value of what you desire.
Nay, we simply owe the Students of Baldesion and their esteemed collaborators a debt of gratitude, and we felt that expediting your request was a suitable way to repay it.
A debt of gratitude...
We have taken the liberty of arranging your passage to the Isle of Haam. Your vessel awaits in Scholar's Harbor.
Th-Then I'd better get those aether tanks loaded onto the airship! We'll be ready to take 'em where you need─assumin' it's safe!
I shall head back to the annex, but should you need anything else, don't hesitate to call!
All proceeds apace thus far, and it is thanks to the enduring bonds you have forged.
It seems this Forum is like Alisaie─they help others simply because they want to.
That Master Fourchenault and Scholarch Montichaigne should personally deliver these glad tidings... We must endeavor to repay their faith in us.
Fascinating...
Forename!?
I-I saw you there, I assure you!
