Though we Garleans are intellectually and physiologically superior in almost all respects, we lack the hereditary traits required for the reliable manipulation of aether─hence our unique inability to wield magicks.
This deficiency, for want of a better word, saw us subjected to decades of oppression by the lesser races, and we were eventually driven to seek shelter in the cold northern reaches of Ilsabard.
Fortunately, said region was replete with vast deposits of ceruleum, which proved instrumental in the development of magitek: a revolutionary technology conceived to compensate for our disadvantage.
It was with magitek that we grew strong─that our nation became an empire. Yet ultimately, this was an extrinsic solution to an intrinsic problem. What I wanted was not a crude device to be used in lieu of magic.
Through modification of the Garlean genome, I argued that it might be possible to enhance a subject's ability to manipulate aether, effectively empowering them to wield magicks. Alas, my theories were met with consternation in the imperial court.Only Lord Zenos, with commendable foresight and wisdom, deigned to support my research.
...You gave me this treatment? But I'm not Garlean.
Ala Mhigan, through and through.
What you have been granted is far greater than mere magic. Before that lesser light, it is as a second sun.
I am informed that Ala Ghiri was recently occupied by the Resistance, and that an attack on Specula Imperatoris is considered imminent. This could provide an ideal opportunity to test her performance in the field.
Your...Skulls, was it? They have joined the garrison at the watchtower?
...Yes, my lord. By your leave, I would rendezvous with them and lead a counterattack against the insurgents.
No. Even were you to leave now, you would not arrive in time.There is another duty I would entrust to you...
...Found you.
So full of fire and eager, weren't they? Well, I wouldn't worry too much. They're strong and they have each other.
At least he spared me the trouble of having to speak up. I wasn't about to let Lyse go alone...
We have a fair bit of ground to cover, so we should split up. If you come across any imperial soldiers, you know what to do.
Oh, and so you know─I sent word to Arenvald's squadron. They are already searching other nearby areas, so we have allies in the event we encounter anything beyond our means.
Ah, give me a moment, Forename.
Say that again, if you would....Hmm. No, maintain your distance for now.
...Understood. Keep me apprised of any developments.
That was Arenvald. The pair that was spying on us in the Fringes has followed us here...
What about you, Forename? Any trouble?
...And there I was thinking we might be due for some peace and quiet. Glad to hear you dealt with them.
I hope the assault on Specula Imperatoris is going well...
Ho! You've improved, lad!
Come now, Father. You lured the fool onto my blade, and do not try to deny it!
Our work here is all but done. What of Conrad and his men?
They are for the main tower. The Skulls have offered fierce resistance thus far, but Conrad seems to believe he can convince them to lay down their arms...
Then we will tend to the stragglers down below. With me!
Report.
Enemy forces have overrun the lower facilities, and appear to be mounting an assault on the main tower. We have already received a request for reinforcements.
A unit of legionaries has been mustered and is ready to depart.They await your orders, Commander.
Stand down.
Commander?
Tell them to stand down.
Commander, if I may! Our people─your people are still in there!They will be slaughtered!
You think I don't know that!? I want nothing more than to help them─to lead the bloody charge─but I have my orders!
Lord Zenos said no reinforcements. He would have us use the main cannon to destroy the installation.
What...kill our own soldiers!? You must be mistaken!
Mayhap you'd like to ask Lord Zenos yourself?
I thought not. Initiate the firing sequence.
Wars are won on the backs of the dead. Theirs and ours. There is no truth but this. We must remain firm and resolute, and always, always do our duty.Now, give the order!
Initiate firing sequence!
