What is it?
Gods, not again... Look, being poor doesn't give you the right to pester whomsoever you like. Why don't you keep with your own kind out by that muddy pond of yours at Drybone?
You have quite a knack for being a nuisance, Forename. The camp is abuzz with talk of newly arrived vagrants.
And though we were unable to attract our wayward transgressor, we were able to learn that the poor have a commune by the pond north of Sandgate, to the east of here. The eyes of the authorities do not reach that place─rather ideal for spiriting away hapless souls.
Let us go there and wait for the kindly priest to come and offer us aid and comfort. Needless to say you'll need to remain in disguise.
A fine day for catching false priests, wouldn't you say?
You look absolutely smashing, Forename─positively dressed for deception. All that's left, then, is to wait for our quarry to appear.
Oh, you poor, unfortunate souls. This is no way for men to live. No way at all.
Who are you? What do you want?
Be at ease, child, for I mean you no harm. I am a priest of the Order of Nald'thal, and I come to offer you succor.
This leaflet bears the teachings of Nald. Trust to them, and they will surely set you free from the shackles of penury!
Hmmm... A tempting offer, but I'm afraid I must decline...
...On account of that atrocious performance. You would have made a gods-awful mummer, Ungust.
Wh-What!? How did you know─!? Y-You bastards tricked me!
P-Please don't hurt me! I was only doing it to protect my people!
Is that so? Do continue.
V-Very well... I'm a man of the Golden Bazaar. Raised there, if not born.
Some moons ago, the Amalj'aa raids began. They would appear sudden as a sandstorm, and plunder and pillage at will. Our defenders couldn't stand against them, few as they were. Everyone lived in fear.
I wanted to save my people, but being a merchant was all I knew. And so I did the only thing a merchant could─I approached the Amalj'aa in hopes of brokering a deal.
In return for sparing the Golden Bazaar, they made demands─outrageous ones.
Demands? Of what kind, pray tell?
First of all, they wanted the schedule for crystal shipments from the Nanawa Mines. For this, I bribed one of the workers to leak me the information.
Next, they wanted me to bring them people. So, I posed as a priest to lure in the vulnerable and give them over to the Amalj'aa. I...I didn't have a choice...
Protecting one's home is a noble thing...but at the cost of innocents? You could have sought the aid of the Immortal Flames, yet you did not. I suspect you are not telling me the full story. What made you sell out your own people? Speak!
The...<mumble>...was good...
What did you say?
The coin was good, I said! I could sell mole meat for a score of lifetimes and not see even a fraction of what the Amalj'aa pay me!
You sacrificed innocents so that you could line your own pockets? Words fail to express the contempt I feel for you.
Spare me your contempt! If you want to blame someone for the mess the world's in, then blame yourselves or the gods!
Uwaaah! Not you again!
Were you the one leaking the Immortal Flames' patrol routes to the enemy as well? Spit it out!
Nooo! I know nothing about that! I swear it!
At this stage, I'm rather disinclined to believe aught that leaves your mouth. But no matter. There'll be time enough to learn the truth.
<sob>
Forename. Be a dear and take word of these developments to Minfilia, would you?
I shall prise everything I can out of this filth.
The abductees are still somewhere out there. Our foremost priority is to rescue them.
Welcome back, Forename. I am pleased that you and Thancred have been getting along.
I see... You have done well to uncover the truth. My thanks for the report.
As Thancred said, we must ascertain where the abducted were taken...and none but the Amalj'aa know the answer.
Suffice it to say they will not willingly part with this information. I fear blood will be spilled before all is said and done.
Though we seek a peaceful solution to the primal problem, we must needs be ready to fight for our cause. That you might take to the field suitably prepared, I would have you meet with a goblin acquaintance of mine. His name is Mutamix Bubblypots, and he is a scholar of no small repute.
Mutamix is renowned for having introduced a revolutionary method of enhancing equipment to Eorzea.
The knowledge of this method was once a closely guarded secret, but thanks to Mutamix and his students, it has now been disseminated to the great benefit of all the realm.
It would serve you well to acquire an understanding of the process. For this purpose, I shall lend you a blade. Take it to Mutamix, and bid him use it to demonstrate his craft to you.
Mutamix is ever to be found at his camp in central Thanalan─a place known as the Bonfire. Look for a pillar of smoke, and the way will become clear.
