Sell me blade to the Ishgardians? Well...them dragons are a fearsome lot, but I'd slay me fair share if the coin was good.
I've worked for one o' them knights before, ye know. Watched me like a bloody hawk, he did. Still, I'd put up with worse than that for a heavy purse.
There you are, Forename! So? Did you sway any hearts?
One or two, eh? Well, added to mine, that makes three or four, not including Slafborn's friends! We won't have the largest company in the army, but I'd say one Revenant's Toll veteran is worth a dozen clanking knights at least!
Oh, I've been so caught up with recruiting that I almost forgot! There's been word from Alphinaud.
Apparently, the Alliance leaders are convening in Ul'dah to discuss Ishgard's plight.
And they've requested your presence! As usual.
Anyway, you'd best make your way to Ul'dah, or you'll be late! Alphinaud said that he would meet you on the Royal Promenade.
My apologies for calling you away from your tasks. I had hoped to proceed with these negotiations one leader at a time, but it seems my urgent requests for an audience have prompted a gathering of the council.
Needless to say, I felt obliged to attend.
The Alliance leaders are already seated within. Let us join them, shall we?
We are well aware of Ishgard's dilemma, and we agree with your assessment.
Then I trust there are no objections to the Crystal Braves' intervention?
Ul'dah has none.
Gridania does not object.
The Crystal Braves are yours to command, Alphinaud. Do what you will. We shall pray for your success.
It was my hope that you would offer more substantial aid than prayer. I know it is within your means.
Do not presume that you have knowledge of our every concern. The Garleans and the beast tribes are but two of many.
We are not in a position to contribute greatly to the defense of Ishgard─not when our own homes are still under siege.
We dare not leave our interests in Carteneau undefended as well. Teledji Adeledji and his ilk would seize control of the territories in our absence.
The enemy is at their gates, and you would cower behind yours!?
No one is cowering, boy. We will offer what support we can.
Aye. Support. A handful of men and no more.
Would that we could commit more than a token force to this cause. Yet there are others to whom you might turn. The free companies ever want for work.
Ah, yes, the free companies... They're not like to turn you down.
I beg your pardon!? You would entrust the survival of Ishgard to sellswords!?
Crises like these are the very reason why this alliance was formed! It is our duty to aid our fellow man!
My duty is to my country and my people.
If you expect us to place the welfare of a foreign power above our own, you're going to be sorely disappointed.
Lest you doubt, Limsa comes first, then the Alliance, and finally─circumstances permitting─Ishgard and the rest.
If you cannot understand so simple a concept, then you have no place at this table.
Forgive me, Admiral. I was...careless in my choice of words.
I suggest you assemble a party of elite adventurers, assuming you haven't already. Your fellows served us well during Operation Archon. I daresay they will do so again.
If I may, Your Grace, I wish to propose a redistribution of forces.
If we entrust the security of Ul'dah to the Brass Blades for a time, we can dispatch a larger force to Ishgard.
Your Grace?
Yes, yes of course. Do what you will.
Is Her Grace not feeling well?
To the best of my knowledge, Her Grace is in perfect health.
I see. Carry on.
Once again, I owe you an apology. It seems you have been conscripted into leading a contingent of adventurers on yet another mission of inestimable danger.
...But I fear we have been left with little alternative. We cannot well abandon Lord Haurchefant and Ser Aymeric to their fate.
We must abide by the council's decision─as shortsighted as it is─and strive to fulfill our roles as Eorzea's guardians.
...Captain Ilberd. What news?
...Then the assault is begun? We have but this moment concluded our audience with the Alliance leaders.
Move our forces into position. Your unit will join House Durendaire at the Steel Vigil.
Man the cannons alongside the knights, and thin the Dravanian Horde ere they descend upon Ishgard. I will join you as soon as I am able.
Forename─I would have you and your adventurer allies bolster the defenses at the Steps of Faith.
Report first to Ser Marcelain at the Gates of Judgement, and he will direct you to where you are needed most. May the gods grant us victory!
