Blessin's o' the Twelve upon ye. Name's Ayoyo, cannoneer first class with the Yellowjackets. 'S an 'onor to 'ave ye on board!
Did I mention that it is the Yellowjackets who are in charge of this year's festivities? Not only in decorating of these fair Lominsan streets, but in designing and constructing the fireworks that brighten the skies above them.
Lady Ayoyo here is quite the savant in all matters incendiary and explosive, and so it has fallen to her to formulate a plan for the display's crowning glory.
Me an' the other lads an' lassies of the cannoneers whipped up a load o' luvverly little drakes, snakes, and devils fer the Moonfire Faire, but more o' the same ain't goin' to cut it fer the Risin'.
'Cause it's all about rememberin' those we lost in the Calamity, ain't it? Them an' theirs deserve somethin' a mite specialer than a bunch of old bangers.
An admirable sentiment, I'm sure. It would not do for our ode to such poignant memories to be aught less than memorable. Let us make this year's Rising one that the citizens of this fair realm will not soon forget.
Took the words right out o' me mouth, dearie. Thing is, 'avin' 'ardly set foot out of Limsa in all me days, I don't reckon I'm best placed to know what's goin' through the minds o' the “citizens o' this fair realm”...
And so you would pick an adventurer's brains. One who has journeyed far and wide across this land we love, and knows it and its people intimately.
Yet before we call upon your particular wisdom, mayhap it would behoove us to seek out a wider range of opinions. Many and more look to the skies come Rising night, and the thoughts that run through their minds are no doubt as diverse. Let us learn them.
Sounds like a plan! Mind if I join ye, dearie? Could do with learnin' some o' these thoughts meself.
Right, then! Where's best to start askin' around? Some place a lot of outsiders gather, I reckon... 'Ow about we meet in the aetheryte plaza, down in the lower decks?
While you two are so engaged, allow me to continue our discussions with the organizing committee. I shall await you by the Aftcastle.
Much and more are the preparations required for a firework display on such a grand scale, and every detail must be approved by the organizing committee. But let that be my concern─your primary objective must be the conception of the display itself.
The market is always bustling around the Rising season. Reminds me of the time the Grand Companies were restored.
