Thank you, thank you, thank you! If you hadn't come along, I don't know what I would've done!
What am I doing out here? Oh...looking for flowers. I need some for my parents' graves.
The ones my brother and I usually bring are yellow, because it was my mother's favorite color. You haven't seen any, have you?
Only yellow ones will do. Mother wouldn't have wanted anything else...
Ah! You found some! Thank you so much, miss. That's twice you've saved me now!
Um, if you have some time to spare, maybe you could come with me? I'm sure Mother and Father would want to meet the woman who showed me such kindness.
We buried them on a cliff to the west of the village. There's a path through the terraces. I'll show you!
We're here! Just give me a moment to put down the flowers, and I'll introduce you...
They loved to meet travelers and hear tales of faraway places. Maybe you could tell them one about your homeland?
Azami! Azami! Are you there? Azami!
What in the─ You should not be here! Get away from my sister!
Don't be so rude! She saved me from monsters, Brother─she even helped me pick flowers for Mother and Father!
Go back to the village. Now.
Y-You're scaring me─
I said go! Stay inside and lock the door until I return!
...Don't think me ungrateful. My sister is the only family I have. If you saved her, then...thank you. But it changes nothing. I asked you to leave, and now I'm asking you again.
I'm not going to report you to the imperials, or anything stupid like that. But it's too dangerous for you to stay here. So please, I'm begging you─just leave us alone!
How many times do I have to tell you!? If they find you here, we're the ones they'll punish! And it'll be a thousand times worse than before!
...So she told, did she? Yes. That's right.
...My mother and father believed in the rebellion. They left to fight for Lord Kaien. They came home on a cart driven by imperial soldiers.
The soldiers demanded that the families of the insurgents present themselves, or else they'd burn the whole village to the ground.
So we did. What choice did we have?
They beat us in the village square─with their hands, with sticks, with anything. They kicked us while we lay on the ground, begging for mercy. They made us denounce my mother and father─call them fools, call them traitors. Say they deserved to die.
I heard them laugh, but I dared not look up. One leaned close and whispered in my ear what he'd do to my sister if they had to come back.
They're gone, but they're never far. All it takes is the wrong word in the wrong ear, and they'll return. And then I'll have to dig another grave. If I'm lucky.
Whatever you came here to do, leave us out of it. If you want to fight the imperials, go and fight them on your own.
You can't help us. No one can. And this is all we've got. So please─don't take it from us.
You are come at a good time, Forename. We but recently completed our inquiries. What of yours?
I...I was not aware of these events... The boy, Isse, he told you all of this?
Such disgraceful, despicable crimes... If I knew the men responsible, I would not hesitate to hunt them down and─
Forgive me, that outburst was unbecoming. The more I learn of the imperials' actions in my absence, the more difficult I find it to marshal my emotions...
Could Lord Hien have foreseen this? That our people's spirits would be broken so? Though at first I scoffed at his pronouncement, it feels all too possible now that he might resolve to surrender himself...
...Despite everything we have seen and learned, I refuse to renounce this cause.
We should return to the House of the Fierce and consult with our comrades. Perhaps together, we might─
Did you hear that? Quickly, we must find a place to hide!
Why are you milling about like a pack of slack-jawed mongrels!?Form a line! Now!
...Finally. I come before you today to deliver an announcement of the highest import, so listen well.
While on a charitable mission to Isari village, the acting viceroy and her personal guard came under attack from Confederate forces. This brazen, unconscionable act cannot─and will not─go unanswered.
As loyal subjects of the Empire who enjoy her safety and prosperity, you have a duty to defend her as well.
...There is no cause for alarm. We have no intention of sending ill-trained fodder to the front line.
Those who are selected will be expected to perform rudimentary tasks. Cleaning and maintenance and so forth. You will serve only as long as you are needed. Afterwards, you will be free to return to your homes.
You. You first.
Hmph. The Empire has no pressing need of cleaners. This is but a thinly veiled attempt to intimidate those who supported the Confederacy's actions, and isolate any whose loyalty they already suspect.
And lastly...you. That should suffice for now.
Don't worry, I will be back before you know it. Listen to the elders while I am away, and do not play outside the village. Everything is going to be fine. I love you, all right? Remember that I love you...
We thank you for your cooperation. Rest assured that this will all be over very soon─once the Confederacy has been made to pay our own “Ruby Tithe.”
There's no telling what might happen to those people! We have to help them!
And we shall. But before all else, we must needs ascertain their destination.I doubt this is the first village the Garleans have visited...nor is it like tobe the last.
I will track these men. Will you help me?
Pray return to our headquarters and tell the others what you saw here.Should we have need of reinforcements, I would know that they are ready.
But I should be going with you! I came here to fight!
Soon enough, Lyse. Soon enough. For now, we must proceed with caution.
I know that, I do... It's just─when I saw them rounding those people up... Look, if anything happens─anything at all─you'd better call for us! I mean it, Yugiri. Anything at all.
Regardless of what the officer claimed, I fear they have crueler designs for these people.
With me, Forename. We must hurry!
Given the circumstances, we must make every effort to refrain from needless violence.
Here. It is a shinobi's tool, for when a more discreet approach is required. Use it with these darts. They are coated with an alchemical reagent that induces a deep sleep.
There are soldiers patrolling ahead. Were circumstances different we could engage them directly, but for the villagers' sake we dare not risk it.
We will use our blowguns to incapacitate them. Regardless of your familiarity with such weapons, you are a veteran warrior, and I am sure it will come naturally to you. Nevertheless, practice is in order...
There─the soldier on the hill below. Take aim and fire─if the dart finds its mark, he should fall within moments.
Well done, my friend! Now, give me your map─there is a vantage point from which you may observe and fire upon the other soldiers.
Worry not─I shall be with you every step of the way, keeping watch for other patrols. We shall speak again on the other side of the river.
Worry not─I shall be with you every step of the way, keeping watch for other patrols. We shall speak again on the other side of the river.
Well done, my friend! Now, give me your map─there is a vantage point from which you may observe and fire upon the other soldiers.
Worry not─I shall be with you every step of the way, keeping watch for other patrols. We shall speak again on the other side of the river.
Excellent work, Forename. They appear to be none the wiser...
The villagers are being held in the castrum to the south─Fluminis.
Once, it was the base of operations for the Garlean occupation...until ten or so years ago, when they relocated to Doma Castle. Now, the castrum serves as little more than a storage facility...
I spy two sentries near the gate. As you have proven yourself to have impeccable aim, I would ask you to incapacitate them. This very hill should afford you a clear shot.
I spy two sentries near the gate. As you have proven yourself to have impeccable aim, I would ask you to incapacitate them. This very hill should afford you a clear shot.
Fine work, Forename. You have a gift for the ways of the shinobi...
The way is clear─let us move closer and see what has become of the villagers.
Sir! The Aan from the other villages are assembled for inspection.
Very good. I will address them personally.
Attention! Shortly you all will be transported to the facility on the distant shore.
Your duties, as you have been previously informed, will be rudimentary in nature. More specifically, you will be tasked with the repair and maintenance of various arms and armaments, as well as magitek devices.
Magitek!? But we're farmers! We don't know the first thing about magitek!
It'd take us months, if not years, to learn how to do that kind of work!
The materiel in question was damaged when your kith and kin rose up in rebellion! Therefore, you bear responsibility for its repair!
If you cannot perform your duties, you will learn how. And if you cannot learn how, then your villages may find themselves at the mercy of the Confederacy and other radical elements. Is that what you want?
Deal with this rabble. I am needed at the castle.
This is no temporary measure. Those men and women will die in servitude.
Once they are taken to the other facility, it will be too late. If we are to intervene, we must do so now. Agreed?
Then let us be about it.
Despite the urgency of the situation, we must still proceed with the utmost caution to ensure the safety of the villagers.
To wit, we must infiltrate the castrum without raising the alarum.
I will deal with any soldiers near the entrance. Stand watch for others approaching from the north until you hear my signal.
I will deal with any soldiers near the entrance. Stand watch for others approaching from the north until you hear my signal.
Speak softly, lest the others hear us. What of the outside?
...That is good. We may proceed as planned.
These ones shall not soon wake. However, the others are too close to the villagers. Incapacitating them as I did these ones is far too risky.
Fortunately, a solution presents itself. I would have you disguise yourself as an imperial soldier and convince them that a changing of the guard is in order.
You have your pick of uniforms. They shall not protest.
You have your pick of uniforms. They shall not protest.
You have your pick of uniforms. They shall not protest.
You have your pick of uniforms. They shall not protest.
You have your pick of uniforms. They shall not protest.
You have chosen one to your liking, then? Excellent.
I shall hide these ones where none will find them.
Our sleeping beauties have been laid to rest in their bunks. Oh, and while I was in the barracks, I happened upon these spare uniforms, in case the items in your possession are not to your liking.
This kabuto and tekko should match the uwagi, hakama, and choka in your possession...
And with that, you have a full set. I am sure that once you change, it will seem as though it was bespoke.
You will need to give the soldiers guarding the villagers a proper imperial salute to complete the deception and convince them to come here, where I will be waiting to deal with them.
Is it time already? Not that I'm complaining, mind, but I thought the others would be gone longer...
Changing of the guard, is it? About bloody time. Just looking at these Aan is making me depressed. Reminds me of when I was in their shoes, pissing myself in fear...
These ones shall sleep soundly along with the others...
And, with that, there are no more soldiers to trouble us. You can dispose of that accursed uniform too.
It is time to guide the villagers to freedom!
Listen to me, all of you! We have dealt with the imperials for now, but you must flee this place, quickly!
