What? How...
Vrtra...? Wherefore art thou here...?
Oh, thank goodness!
'Tis thee, dear sister. Truly thee... How long have I dreamed of this moment!
Would that I could have found thee sooner...but I am here now. Let us return home, together.
The thought filleth me with joy...but I fear it cannot be. Not even with a dragon's might can these chains be broken.
For they are forged of the very will of the man named Golbez.
So this is indeed Golbez's domain.
Thou keepest company with mortals?
I do. They are my stalwart allies, without whom I could not have come this far.
Is that so... Then much time hath passed indeed.
It doth feel like only yesterday that we were fighting the voidsent hordes the men of Allag had unleashed on Meracydia...
Desperate to save Tiamat, I flew into this lightless world to strike at the heart of the Cloud of Darkness's forces.
But the voidsent I slew returned again and again. And before I knew it, the rift betwixt worlds had closed. I was stranded. Bereft of strength...
Thou didst save the lives of full many, Sister.
Today, we abide in harmony with men, working side by side and forging enduring bonds.
Indeed, in the course of searching for thee, I did cross paths with many a noble mortal, with whom I built a nation of rich diversity.
To thee I would show it─my beautiful Radz-at-Han. I shall not rest until thou art free.
When Golbez found me collapsed, the Darkness ravaging my wounds, he spoke and said:
“'Tis but a matter of time before you turn. But I have the power to stop it.”
And he did─for a price. I would remain myself, but bound. An everlasting feast for his minions, who supped upon my aether over thousands of years.
What now, then? Does this great wyrm intend to remain a captive meal for all eternity, not daring to test her chains?
If such is thine attempt at encouragement, mortal, then thou art as graceless as Nidhogg.
'Twas Golbez who did weave this spell, and so his defeat should serve to unravel it. Would it suffice as a show of spirit were I to reveal what I know of the villain?
Now there's a start. So, what can you tell us?
Mayhap in order to sustain the magick, he cannot travel far from this place.
He doth prefer to send minions to carry out his will, but on occasion will himself ascend to the moon's surface.
And every time, without fail, he will visit the same location to the south. Something of import lieth there, doubt not.
Well, you heard her. Shall we look into this spot near and dear to our enemy's heart?
'Tis a comfort to see that Azdaja's spirit remains unbroken. Let's find this mystery location Golbez so favors.
A place Golbez visits without fail... If there were some distortion in the ambient aether, I would be able to find it with ease...
We must do no less than defeat Golbez in order to free my sister. Make sure thou art prepared for anything.
The others have already begun searching for clues. Let us do the same.
I'll take charge of this area. If you could see to the south.
Leave this area to me and see to the south.
Nothing here... Mayhap further south, then?
I have only performed a cursory search, but I doubt there is anything of note further west. Perhaps you could try looking to the southeast.
I could not discern a structure of any kind from above. Whatever this place or object might be, Golbez hath hidden it well.
I could not discern a structure of any kind from above. Whatever this place or object might be, Golbez hath hidden it well.
Did you find something?
A memoria. But whose...?
You have lied, pillaged, and murdered. Have you anything to say in your defense?
