Know you to whom you speak? All people of the Steppe should. Or have you fought so much that you have forgotten the face of your superiors?
Superiors!? I spit on your superiority, little prince. Twisted and mad as sand devils, your kind are!
Those two don't seem to like each other very much...
Those boys are of the Oronir and Dotharl. The two strongest tribes.
The Children of Azim are destined to rule. So they declare to all who will listen. Their word is law─for now.
Grand, flamboyant fighters...but deadly. Very deadly. He prances as a horse, as do his brothers after their many recent victories.
The undying ones too are strong. Fearless and vicious, they often reigned in the past. Now, they are sorely tested.
Ah, the master of the markets. He is Qestir.
To fight in Reunion is forbidden, and to break the peace is to be banished forever. This he says without words, for words are lies to the Qestir.They do not speak.
That's...interesting. And all these different tribes share the same lands, do they? No wonder it's tense...
Hmph! I shall look for you on the field at the Naadam. Mark my words!
Hah hah hah! As shall I! Mayhap I shall take eleven more Dotharl heads to make a dozen with yours. I look forward to the day.
Their dispute will be settled at the “Naadam”?
A great battle held on the final day of the Tsagaan Sar.
During this time, all bonds of hierarchy are broken. All Xaela are equal and free to prepare for the fight.
The tribe which triumphs in the Naadam rules until the next Tsagaan Sar.
Which, in these lands, is now.
Ah, so that is what they call the custom. I presume your tribe will also be taking part?
Not all seek the Dawn Throne. Some are satisfied with their lot.Others, like the Qestir, have reason to remain neutral.
The Mol are lambs among wolves. Long were we content to remain apart and live quietly, but...
Never mind that! You seek Hien, yes? I know where he may be.
Long ago, my grandmother, having received a vision from the gods, bade me go forth into the southern mountains. It was there that I found Hien, near death from many wounds.
I brought him to our village, and there we nursed him back to health. Afterwards, he chose to remain, that he might repay us for our kindness.
Domans set much store by honor and shame, so at first I did not question it...
Excuse me. If I could see your map for a moment... Here─he has grown fond of this place. It affords him a view of the markets and the Steppe.
I would accompany you, but I must return to our village to prepare my grandmother's meal. Thank you again for your assistance!
Our long-awaited reunion is at hand! Come, my friends─let us go and greet our lord and master!
The kami are merciful! My lord Hien, I see you are alive and well!
