All right, ye scurvy bastards... Here's a trick to make ye soil yer breeches!
So cold...
Dweller o' the Abyss, yer master calls! Heed me words an' smite me foes!
Is that a bloody voidsent!? Hold steady, lads!
Keep on pummeling him! He can't take much more of this!
Well fought─the Reavers are beaten and scattered.
I'll take some men and hunt down the stragglers. Oh, but there may be more of them lurking about, so don't let your guard down just yet.
The source of his strength becomes clear...
You may have bested the golem, but you will not fare so well this day.
O mournful voice of creation! Send unto me a creature of the abyss, my thrall to command, that I may smite mine enemies!
Your very being imperils the plan. You cannot be suffered to live.
Soon, you shall take your vile gifts to the grave!
Mwahahaha! Writhe as the venom eats its way through your veins!
Whence springs this preternatural might!?
A fearsome opponent...against whom you shall not stand alone!
An unwelcome guest. No matter, all shall fall before me!
No mortal should possess such strength!
His power wanes! Afford him no chance to recover!
Unnngh... That the wisdom of the Paragons should be brought low...by mere mortals...
“Paragons,” did he say? Then it is as I feared.
They are known as the Bringers of Chaos...or Ascians, to give them their proper name.
It would seem our suspicions were correct─it is they who have been manipulating the beast tribes.
Pardon? You would know if we Sharlayans have encountered Ascians before?...I have never spoken to you of my homeland. How did you know whence I hail?
Wait. I do begin to see. You have been blessed with a special gift.
Are you all right, lass!? If I'd known a mean bugger like that was hiding in the bushes, I would've left a squad or six to keep you company.
Well, at least now we can call this kidnapping investigation to a close. Those Reavers were the ones spiriting folk away in the dead of night, and this bastard here was pulling all the strings.
A trifle simplistic, but not inaccurate.
I came as soon as I sensed his presence, but I never thought to find such a scene of carnage. Yet we prevailed. And thanks to your heroic actions, I have learned much.
Aye, “heroic” is the word. I don't want to think about what would've happened if you hadn't been here, friend.
And your assistance is much appreciated, too, Lady Y'shtola. Please give our regards to the Scions.
I am glad to have played a role in bringing what I hope is an end to this disturbing spate of abductions.
The thread of your fate forms a part of a most intriguing tapestry. Mayhap we will be afforded the chance to speak more in the near future.
For now, however, you must see this particular tale to its conclusion. Pray send my greetings to Commodore Reyner.
Surname, eagerly have I awaited your return!
Word of your exploits is already spreading through the ranks. My troops and I owe you a great debt of gratitude for your timely assistance.
You have shown yourself to be possessed of a sure arm, a strong spirit, and sound judgment. Would that Limsa Lominsa had more of your like.
I have little doubt that you shall one day join the ranks of Eorzea's greatest adventurers. It is but a matter of time.
Clearly, Baderon's eye for potential remains as sharp as ever, though I doubt even he imagined you capable of such feats.
Might you favor me with your own account of the day's events? Such victories bear retelling!
Y'shtola has been working with us for quite some time, you see.
And she was only too willing to assist the Yellowjackets in the kidnapping investigation, proving herself a stalwart ally of Limsa Lominsa yet again.
Needless to say, after your part in thwarting the attempted sabotage of the Victory, and the small matter of your deeds at Swiftperch, you too have proven yourself a valued friend of the thalassocracy.
Admiral!
May I present to you Admiral Bloefhiswyn.
