This is the end for you, kitten!
Know your place!
It's not enough to claim the title of Dawnservant.
I must carry on Papa's legacy─his love for our people!
I'll grind you beneath my heel!
What, can't keep up?
Flea-ridden upstart! Why won't you die!?
Fine! I'll show you the true power of the blessed!
I will be the next Dawnservant! And I'll protect my people's happiness to the last!
I will be the next Dawnservant! And I'll protect my people's happiness to the last!
That's why there's no way...I'll ever lose...to the likes...of you!
What!? But that was everything I had!
Argh, I can't stand it anymore! Attack!
This is our fight! Stay out of it!
You bring shame upon us!
You think we care about your stupid pride!?
This is for Mamook! We cannot lose!
Oho! The great Bakool Ja Ja needs help, I see!
Send your whole army! You still won't win!
I will prove that my allies are right to believe in me.
Such confidence... What changed? She wasn't like this before!
T-Too strong...
<pant> <pant>
I'm...sorry...
Damn...
Not...like this...
I reclaim what you stole.
N-No... How can this be...?
How could that puny house cat beat all of us...?
You've caused nothing but trouble with your dirty tricks.
Threatening the Hanuhanu, releasing Valigarmanda─harassing me is one thing, but you've endangered too many innocents!
No more, Bakool Ja Ja! I will not stand for it! If you even think of tormenting my people again, you will answer to me!
No... No...
And he goes and forgets he had the way blocked...
What? That was his doing?
The only part left in the saga is the Lay of the Brotherhood─in Mamook.
The plan was to force you here so we could take the rest of your keystones.
So that's what he was up to... But, uh, should you be telling us this?
What does it matter? You've beaten us. It's over.
We'll release the hostage.
I'm sorry. I was careless.
Are you all right?
So what Bakool Ja Ja said... About you and me...
I─ Ah, but to single-handedly defeat Bakool Ja Ja! You truly are the Dawnservant's daughter.
It has been my honor to bear witness to your journey, Promise.
Promise... Yes, that's what I am.
I'm Gulool Ja Ja's daughter, and Tuliyollal's next Dawnservant!
Come on. Let's rejoin the others.
Erenville's tour was both educational and exciting! I hope we can persuade him to conduct another in the lower forests.
The twins ran me from one end of the Ut'ohmu Horizon to the other, asking about everything of remote interest along the way...
Did something happen while we were away? There's a certain satisfied air about you...
For as weathered as our Promise looks, she's positively glowing with confidence. What in the world happened?
Seems we were last to return. I'm glad everyone made it back safely.
Thank you for having faith in me. Keeping out of the fight even when it got dirty couldn't have been easy for you.
But Bakool Ja Ja won't be the last person to threaten those I care about.
I wanted to prove to myself that I can stand up to such villains, even when I stand alone.
Which isn't to say I won't ask for your help when I need it, of course! I know better than that now!
Which isn't to say I won't ask for your help when I need it, of course! I know better than that now!
The passage to Mamook remains blocked. For now, all we can do is try to rest and recover.
...Perhaps with a meal, as my sister would no doubt suggest. Shall we borrow the kitchens and prepare some xibruq pibil?
So thou hast taken a liking to the dish.
As we learn to appreciate the unfamiliar, 'tis only natural that we develop new affinities. There is no shame in this.
But there is in ignorance. I had barely considered what the people of Tuliyollal hold dear. What hopes they harbor for the future.
Our nation is built upon the bonds that Father forged during his journey across Tural.
But so single-minded have I been in my advocacy of foreign innovations...that I failed to understand my own people.
Could someone who struggles to connect with the populace ever make a worthy Dawnservant?
To understand and connect with people is by no means easy.
But there is something you can do to pave the way.
Let them see you for who you really are. What makes you laugh and cry and rage. That sort of honesty is the first step towards mutual understanding─and connection.
“Understanding begets fellowship.” As my father said...
And yet, what you suggest does not come naturally to me...
I, too, have found it difficult to speak from the heart. In thy struggles, I see mine own─painful in their familiarity.
Yet frightening though it may feel, if we are to move forward, we must indeed take that first step. Dispense with pretense and simply be.
Do you remember when you first approached us, and we asked you why you wanted to become Dawnservant?
You said you wished to use the knowledge you acquired in Sharlayan for your country─and in doing so repay your father for the opportunities he afforded you.
What won me over was not your ambition, but your motivation.
So let your people know this. And in time, they'll come to support you as we do.
You can't hide behind that stoicism forever.
Very well, then. I will make a greater effort to be myself...by not being my usual self so much.
So what's the state of the Ty'iinbek Traverse?
Still being cleared, I'd assume. Hunmu Rruk said he would notify us as soon as work was done.
Then perhaps now would be a good time to consider how we might reclaim Wuk Lamat's stolen keystone. The next feat will be our last, after all.
Oh, I already got it back.
What!? When?
Not to mention how! This is Bakool Ja Ja we're talking about!
...So I taught him a lesson and took my keystone back.
You bested Bakool Ja Ja in single combat? Bravo!
Hehe, what can I say? I've had good friends to encourage and cheer me on.
There you are. Our excavators have contacted me with news of their success. The Ty'iinbek Traverse is now safe for travel.
Then we finally can make for Mamook.
Come to think of it, isn't it Bakool Ja Ja's home? We can only hope its residents don't share his winning personality.
If it is indeed the city where Ketenramm first met the Dawnservant, surely some civility awaits us.
I would not be so certain.
It is true that the Dawnservant received Ketenramm in Mamook, and was instrumental in the establishment of friendly relations between the Xbr'aal and Mamool Ja.
But since that time, most of the Mamool Ja who supported his peace have left their city in favor of abiding in the capital.
What remains is a cloister of Mamook. And while these traditionalists do not take up arms against us, neither do they bear great love for outsiders.
Whatever they're like, the people of Mamook are also of Tuliyollal. If I'm to be Dawnservant, it's my job to know them first of all.
Well, we'll be on our way, then. I'm glad I could learn about where I came from. And eat so much xibruq pibil besides!
Thank you for everything, Hunmu Rruk. Till next time, take care!
First we make our way across the Xobr'it Cinderfield, due southeast.
How you have grown indeed...
I filled my bag with xibruq pibil before we left, but I'm down to my last serving already...
After seeing that battlefield, I find it miraculous that the Dawnservant was able to negotiate a peace.
If Bakool Ja Ja ran in this direction after losing to Wuk Lamat, then he undoubtedly was returning to Mamook.
I wonder if the First and Second Promises have already arrived in Mamook.
The Traverse will bring us straight into the Ja Tiika Heartland.
...Remember how you insisted this forest is green?
This path is quite steep, isn't it? Let us take our time and descend safely.
I'll take a moment's rest, I think...
I spoke with one of the excavators on my way down. Apparently, Bakool Ja Ja cleared away the one fallen tree remaining by barreling through it.
That Wuk Lamat single-handedly defeated someone possessed of such physical might is nothing short of remarkable.
Still, we ought to proceed with caution. There's no telling what his wounded pride might compel him to attempt.
We will doubtless face Bakool Ja Ja again. I cannot say I relish the thought of the reunion.
Erenville said this Traverse was dug to facilitate incursions into the forests above. Intentions notwithstanding, you have to admire the dedication.
Just look at this thing! What a vibrant glow!
Alluring, isn't it?
In more ways than one. Take my pairing stone and hold it close to the glowing rock.
Go on. Use my pairing stone and see what happens.
Go on. Use my pairing stone and see what happens.
Pairing stones are natural magnets─and that's a meteorite filled with iron. One of many remnants of an ancient meteor shower.
The heterogeneous aether they emit causes surrounding flora to glow unique hues, as you can see.
So these glowing boulders came plummeting down from the heavens? Vidraal be merciful...
There you are!
Blue! It's all blue!
A far cry from the upper forests, indeed.
This place is already so fascinating... I'm eager to hear what the people of Mamook can tell us about it!
Keep running! We're almost there!
And here we finally are... Now to find the elector!
I wonder what the final feat will be.
Rather more quiet than I expected...
Now to see whether or not Hunmu Rruk's fears were well founded...
As this is also my first time visiting Mamook, I have no experience interacting with the locals.
But given Hunmu Rruk's parting words, I would advise...a cautionary approach.
See if you can't convince Wuk Lamat to be cautious as well.
Well, we all know what comes next─let's find that elector!
Two streets seem to converge upon this plaza, so I propose we split our numbers between them.
Given Hunmu Rruk's guidance, I also suggest that we err on the side of caution and move throughout the city in pairs.
Erenville can come with me, and Alisaie can go with Krile. That leaves Forename to accompany Wuk Lamat. If these arrangements are to everyone's satisfaction, then may our respective searches prove fruitful.
...You can still hear me, right? And see me?
