Glory on your name, Brother!
And on yours, Brother!
...I know my rivals for the throne, nothing more.
Another child of the Dawnservant...?
No, this brute─
We have no ties to their farce of a family!
Unlike this sniveling house cat, we are blessed siblings! The elevated chosen! We alone are fit to succeed Gulool Ja Ja as Dawnservant!
All peoples are equal in Tuliyollal! Your heritage gives you no greater claim to the throne!
Shall we test that idea here and now? See if your strength is “equal” to ours?
None of this has any bearing on the rite of succession, correct? Best not waste your energies on pointless scuffles.
The kitten comes to the house cat's defense!
Pathetic! Since when was our nation overrun by mewling weaklings?
Listen to me, you...
A two-headed Mamool Ja... I knew of them, but that's the first I've seen in the flesh.
Some get it into their twin heads that they're destined to follow in my father's footsteps. So they travel to distant lands to hone their battlecraft.
Those are likely the ones you've heard about.
Are there other two-headed claimants?
No, just Bakool Ja Ja. Even in Tural, his kind are far from common.
The Mamool Ja people largely belong to one of three clans. The Hoobigo...
The Boonewa...
And the Doppro.
Every once in a great while, a two-headed offspring is born from a union between the brown-scaled Hoobigo and the blue-scaled Boonewa. The child grows to possess immense strength, both physical and magical.
“Blessed siblings” indeed...
Forget them. Let's go and buy more tacos─I can think of nothing better to rid me of this bad taste in my mouth.
Enjoying your tour of the city, I trust? We've seen our share of notable sights and took a moment to rest.
As such, we're ready to present ourselves at the palace for the rite of succession. Shall we meet you there?
The palace it is. I'll let Wuk Lamat know.
Destiny calls. Perhaps we can return for more tacos later?
...So it goes.
Br'uk Evu's lovingly made tacos went to waste, and it's all that brutish Bakool Ja Ja's fault...
I was looking forward to trying some authentic Tuliyollal cuisine, but we should hurry and join Alphinaud and the others at the palace.
All right. It's a bit of a climb to the top, but you can head up from the Resplendent Quarter, or even the eastern side of Talonmarch, if you prefer.
Now that you have an idea of how the city's laid out, I'll let you find your own way to Vollok Shoonsa.
Ah, my poor, empty belly...
There are so many narrow, winding streets. But even if you get lost, all you have to do is keep heading up, and you'll arrive at the palace eventually.
Do you have a better feel for the city now?
We saw a two-headed Mamool Ja on our way here. Another claimant in the rite of succession, according to Erenville.
The food is amazing. A passing Mamool Ja let us try a fruit called “cherimoya” and it was just sublime.
You made it. Good. Then we're all here.
I'm still hungry enough to eat a whole roasted colibri, but the contest won't wait for us forever!
Oh, I could ask Namikka to cook me something afterwards...
I've acquainted the twins with the city as best I could in a short time.
Their unbridled enthusiasm made it rather difficult. Invariably something would catch their eye, spurring them to run down an alley to investigate. 'Twas like herding a pair of unruly coeurls.
Heh, I understand all too well. Sharlayan had the same effect on me.
Right, then. Now it's time we saw the inside of the palace. Papa will want to know I'm home, and to meet the allies I've chosen.
Given how impulsive he is, though, there's no telling what we might be in for...
Estinien!? When did he get here...?
More to the point, why is he here?
Oh, you know this man?
Whenever my father spots a promising opponent, he invites them to Sunperch to duel. Pressing duties or no, he can't resist a good fight.
So the one Estinien is crossing blades with...
