Hahahahaha!
Finished, are you? Let's retreat for now.
So, were you able to learn anything?
Their leader is a man of the Dustwatch!?
That would explain why these bandits have been able to do as they please. And you say they gave the bracelet to him?
It seems we have our work cut out for us. Did you hear anything else of note?
Zekowa? That's the boy who confronted one of the officers in town, isn't it?
And you say they threatened to take him to speak with “the Vulture”? Their leader's alias, no doubt.
Fitting for a man who preys on the helpless.
Well then. Not only do we have a better idea of who's behind the recent rash of robberies in Hhusatahwi, but we also know he has the bracelet.
Retrieving it without bloodshed will prove difficult, though, if he's that quick to point a gun at his own underlings...
You're right. If we confront him with his henchmen around, a violent outcome is all but guaranteed.
The direct approach may have served you well in the past, but it won't suffice here. Wihuwte is the deputy chief of the Dustwatch. He could claim we're the criminals in all this, and no few people would believe him.
Hmmm... I might have a plan.
There's a small settlement to the southeast of here─Luwateninyawawsa. Meet me there and I'll explain everything.
If we're to retrieve the bracelet without conflict, it won't be done barging in through the front door. We'll have to lure him out.
To do that, we'll avail ourselves of yeheheceyaa─dragon-like creatures that live to the south of here.
It's their breeding season, you see, and the males will flock to the scent of a female in heat.
With a few ingredients, and a sample of their feces, I can create an attractant that resembles this scent when burned.
We can then lure the yeheheceyaa into the bandits' hideout, flushing out the Vulture and his gang.
Then, while they contend with our flying friends, we can sneak in and search for the bracelet.
I'm afraid I must ask that you collect the excrement. While you see to that, I will go and procure the remaining ingredients.
...And before you say anything, I do not ask this because of any aversion to feces. It would simply be easier for me to find the specific species of wild plants we require.
Here. Take these three pouches, see them filled, and I will handle the rest.
Here. Take these three pouches, see them filled, and I will handle the rest.
Here. Take these three pouches, see them filled, and I will handle the rest.
Finished already, are we?
Excellent, this will do nicely.
All that's left is to mix the feces with tumbleclaw fibers, dried nopalitender root, and a generous helping of animal fat.
Come. Let's get back to Tonatenyawi.
Everything is ready. Time to set our plan into motion.
A fair number appear to be gathered inside. Now's our chance.
I will keep watch from here. The attractant I leave to you.
Toss it into the bonfire near the middle of town. The yeheheceyaa will come soon after.
