Let us press onward!
Allow me to assist you!
They knew we were elsewhere. Cowards!
Our saviors have returned!
Hope is not yet lost!
For Baron!
Leave this one to us!
I think not.
We will deal with this fiend!
Forward! Forward!
This one is dangerous. Have care, Golbez.
So this is an antlion of the Thirteenth.
If we're to escape, it seems we've no choice but to fight.
If we're to escape, it seems we've no choice but to fight.
Is there no end to this memory?
We should follow after him.
That they command such terrible beasts bodes ill... We've no time to lose!
Such destruction... If only we had returned sooner...
Such carnage. Such cruelty. This is...
The Contramemoria...
What have we here? Come to play hero, are you?
Such...strength...
I daresay we'll be faster if we split up.
That he should place such faith in Golbez...
In any case, it would be rude of us not to respond in kind.
Behold, the true power of memoria!
Please, no!
Arrrggghhh!
What's happening to me!?
Help...me...
They've been turned into monsters!
They've all but brought the Final Days upon themselves.
How...? How could I...
Golbez!
This can't be happening... Not to you...
My friend... My hero... I will stop you even should it cost me my life!
He gave himself to the Dark to stop Golbez...
And yet it falls to us to keep him─or rather, you─from harm.
So be it. I will fight you with all my strength.
Aether to fortify my blade...
I need power. Light or Dark, it matters not!
Such savagery ill suits you.
You've weathered this before. Let's see how you fare now!
Even so, I'll not be bested. Not this day.
Prepare yourself!
It's over, my friend!
Was there truly no other way?
He all but set his soul aflame...
It should not have come to this.
A bitter victory...
Why? Why you and not me?
You were the best of us. A paragon of virtue. I could never hope to be your equal.
I am only the knight I am because of you...
Because you believed in me!
You would not wish to become a monster, preying upon those who've fought to protect. But neither can I bring myself to kill you.
So rest easy, my friend, and entrust your legacy to me.
You will never die, this I swear.
Through me your name shall live on, as the hero who saves the world!
We've been released from the memory, 'twould seem.
If Golbez was the one sealed in this memoria...
Then the one we've been fighting is...
No more than an impostor playing at hero.
Durante, I presume.
A name long since lost to time. History shall remember only Golbez.
Come what may, I shall deliver the world its salvation, and I will not suffer you to interfere.
You seek to free all souls from the purgatory of undeath. And to that end, you would invade another world.
While I cannot condone your methods, I understand your motive full well.
For I'm driven by the same. I too wish to save our world.
I too once thought I had to bear the burden by myself. That I had no choice but to walk my path alone. But I was wrong. We may yet strive together towards our shared goal, if you would reconsider your course.
If you possessed power which transcended that of Zeromus, then perhaps I would.
But you do not. No, you are but another voidsent, like me. And what is a candle before the sun?
Perhaps we aren't all-powerful and cannot effect great change in an instant. Even so...
Great change is what we need! Aught less has no meaning!
Having glimpsed our past, you should understand as well as any.
As Golbez, I dedicated myself to ending the Contramemoria. I fought the corrupted memoriates, and attempted to redeem those twisted by their power.
Yet try as I might, I was powerless to make any meaningful change. 'Twas then, when I was floundering in despair, that she appeared─the Ascian Igeyorhm.
Claiming to know how to excise the source of our woes, she showed me to the moon, where the servant of Light abided. 'Twas he and his ilk who had granted men unnatural powers, she said, and now prolonged the war.
Believing her every word, I struck him down...and caused Darkness to engulf the world.
What!? Then it was you who...
As Emet-Selch once told us, the Thirteenth was the Ascians' first attempt at a Rejoining, before they fully understood the mechanisms at play.
They failed because they sought only to awaken the sundered Zodiark without instigating a calamity in the Source. The Darkness they unleashed had nowhere else to go...
Having left a ruin of our world, the Ascian fled. I was a fool to trust them. To trust in others.
Since that day, I have sought the means to undo my mistake. The world may be beyond saving, but I would at least restore the great flow.
The dragon was an extraordinary windfall. A veritable font of aether that expedited my endeavors time and again.
But it wasn't enough to achieve my objective. Far from it.
For an eternity, I had to bide my time. But the day finally came when I acquired the power I sought.
Aye, the remnants of the Ascians' god sealed within the moon suddenly dispersed into aether.
With that aether, Zeromus could be conceived. And driven by the dragon's longing for home, it shall soon arise to destroy the barrier between worlds.
Thus will the way open to the promised land, and the death we have been too long denied.
Thus will I, Golbez, bring salvation to all!
So that is all you have left...
Say what you will. You cannot stop Zeromus's awakening.
We're going after him, aren't we?
Aye. That's why we came, after all. And besides...
When someone believes in you, it makes you want to believe in them. In others and yourself. Jullus was right about that.
He speaks of salvation─of fulfilling an honored friend's legacy. Yet he does not scruple to discard others for his ambitions...
To yearn to save the world, only to bring about its unmaking... 'Tis a tragic tale. But it changes nothing.
We rarely believe ourselves the villain. But if our ends demand unconscionable sacrifice, what else can we be?
Let us press on.
Let us press on.
I had hoped to bear witness to the moment our salvation is realized...
But nothing must be left to chance. I will stop you here no matter the cost!
Wounded as I am, I knew that I would be hard-pressed to fight you on equal terms.
And so I lured you to this place, where the advantage is mine!
The archfiends live!?
Impossible. Scarmiglione and Barbariccia were sealed in memoria, while Cagnazzo and Rubicante died in the Source...
You are not wrong. They are not the true archfiends, but shades born of their residual aether.
If they are shades, then their strength will pale in comparison. Even should they fight as one, we may yet prevail.
We'll tend to the archfiends. Go and put an end to Zeromus.
You'll do no such thing!
Go! We'll join you as soon as we can!
It is too late. Zeromus will awaken, and it shall devour any who come between it and its desire. Your companion is no exception.
I wouldn't be so sure.
Time and again, she has faced insurmountable odds.
But no matter how hopeless things seemed, she's never given up the fight.
So long as she has strength of will to forge on, then so too shall we!
For we believe in her, and she believes in us.
And together, our Light can pierce blackest Darkness!
