A fake, I'd wager!
This is no fake! The parchment is marked with an arcane glyph of passage!
You may find the ruins hidden in the Bounty, but you won't be setting foot inside without this in your possession!
A priceless artifact, it is! Discovered amongst the rubble in the aftermath of the Final Days, and lovingly restored by yours truly!
This map is the key to fabulous riches, and I would be the king of fools to simply give it away!
Be glad I am no such king, boy─your scrawny hide would never return with that treasure alive!
Gahahaha!
O cruel fate! Why must you tempt me with wealth I am powerless to claim!?
How I shall envy the one who purchases that precious map! Whatever they pay will be but a pittance against the golden hoard they stand to uncover!
What of you, sir? A fighting man of your stature would surely relish the challenge of recovering Alzadaal's lost fortune!
A fortune, you say...?
If I had but the strength to seize that treasure, my starving sister would never want for food!
I'll take it. Will this cover the price?
Well met, my friend.
Someone is dressed for adventure.
But why Thavnair of all places? Knowing you, I suspect there is more to your plans than sightseeing and shopping.
Ruins beneath the Bounty...? Curious. And here I've acquired a map to just such a site...
With that sale, I do believe I've earned the rest of the day off. Thank you for your patronage, sir, but if you'll excuse me...
You needn't mind us.
And now I've fleeced one of the heroes of the Final Days. I pray the Sisters were looking elsewhere...
This map may or may not be genuine. Either way, we'll need a ship to find out for sure.
Lest you misunderstand, I seek the treasure not for myself.
If such a fortune truly exists, then it could help ease the struggles of those who lost their loved ones in the Final Days.
I hope to do for Thavnair what you and Alphinaud did for the Ala Mhigans when you recovered the mad king's trove.
Come now, you know Alphinaud needs little encouragement when it comes to recounting the tales of your shared exploits.
Speaking of precocious lads, that boy in the bazaar was clearly an accomplice of the merchant.
I suppose his role was to draw the attention of the crowd and add weight to the merchant's bold claims.
A transparent act for the most part, but 'twas not all mummery─the need to provide for his sister rang true enough.
Thus if some portion of the profits end up in that waif's pockets, then I will consider it money well spent...whether the map leads us to the vault or not.
You are coming along, yes?
Hmph, I thought as much.
I appreciate the concern, but if there is one thing I've learned from my time with the Scions, it is how to better manage my coinpurse.
Now, let's see about securing a vessel.
You will recall I spoke of visiting Thavnair at Vrtra's request?
Well, he finally invited me to a feast...and made his proposal once I was too full of Hannish delights to refuse. He wishes me to train the Radiant Host in lancework...
...But that is a tale for another time. What we need now is a merchant or a trawler with a ship fit for the open seas.
Matsya is a fisherman by trade, yes? We should head to Akyaali and see if he can help us.
I am hoping to hire a ship, of course, rather than buy one. My funds would not stretch quite that far.
My friends, what brings you to our humble village?
...So you need a seaworthy vessel to seek these ruins?
Considering it was your deeds which allowed us to return to fishing, I should think everyone would be glad for a chance to repay the favor!
Wait here, and I will have a boat stocked and ready for you in no time at all!
Have you noticed our little shadow? He's been following us since we left the city.
We see you there, boy. Show yourself.
Ah, it is you...
Do you know how far out of our way we walked so that you'd not cross paths with some wild beast?
I'm sorry, sir, but aren't you the heroes who saved Thavnair? You are. I know you are...
And I've gone and cheated you! I work with Zasshal, you see─the map merchant. It's my job to play the pleading orphan, and convince the crowd his wares are worth the price he asks.
I'm ashamed of what I've done, and beg for your forgiveness. If not for you, my sister and I would never have... Well, we'd be...
Enough. I knew your game, and I paid the price willingly. A fortunate purchase as it turns out, for my friend here was seeking those very ruins.
You are kind to overlook the wrong I have done you...
But there is more you need to know.
The map you bought is very real, as is the island it shows. I overheard Zasshal selling the information to another customer.
He told that man where he needed to search, about the ruins, about the vault...about everything. Then the man sailed out to find his fortune, never to return.
You cannot go alone to that place! You should have more friends with you─maybe even a whole army!
I do not doubt the ruins hold danger, but I assure you, between the two of us there is little we cannot overcome.
Please! I cannot bear the thought of...of...
...That we could. And assuming we do find this treasure hoard, it may prove wise to have more hands along for the carrying.
...Assuming we find any. Still, it may prove wise to bring some companions along all the same.
I did not— That was not my intention.
Oh, very well. Assuming we do find this treasure hoard, it may prove wise to have more hands along for the carrying.
Any ideas on whom to approach? The Scions have scattered far and wide since our last gathering...
Thancred and Urianger, eh?
Those two would answer our call, certainly. But they left the Rising Stones with a definite task in mind, and I am loath to interrupt their self-appointed mission.
Little Lord Alphinaud and his sister? Were they not bound for Garlemald? They have far more important matters to attend to than delving for trinkets.
Y'shtola...?
Her magicks would be a welcome addition, aye, but I am loath to interrupt her research. Mayhap we could ask a less...prickly companion.
Aye, Krile may have her hands full rebuilding the Students, but if you reach out to G'raha, he would surely leap at the invitation.
Will that set your mind at ease?
Y-Yes, if that man is as strong as you. ...Is he though? Strong, I mean?
What is your name, boy?
Mehrahd, sir.
Well, Mehrahd, your life is yours to live as you will. But I suggest you find a more honest trade if you truly wish to keep your sister safe.
I'm not proud of what I do!
But what choice do I have? We need to eat, and everyone's too busy rebuilding their own lives to bother with two grubby orphans...
Wait, boy.
I didn't take this roundabout road just to see you end up in some creature's belly. Let me walk you back to the city gates.
Thank you, sir.
Call me Estinien.
Estinien is... I think he is not as gruff as he makes out to be.
I shall leave you to recruit G'raha. He'll appreciate the invitation that much more, I'm sure.
As I recall, he was based at the annex. Someone there ought to be able to point you in the right direction.
Let us be off too, Mehrahd. Do me a favor and don't stray from the path.
Oh, look who it is! Welcome back, Forename!
What might the Students do for you?
G'raha? Yes, he's in the main hall with Mistress Krile.
They've been holed up in there for days. By all means, go and give them an excuse to take a break!
Ah, Ojika, my good man.
Would you be so...kind...as to...
Isn't this a pleasant surprise.
I wish you had sent word ahead. I thought I was having visions for a moment there!
Slow and steady. Raha and I have been compiling old records of the Students' activities.
Raha and I have been compiling old records of the Students' activities.
We were able to locate several accounts in the archives of Noumenon, but the bulk of our documents was lost along with the Isle of Val...
But what brings you to the annex, my friend? Surely you haven't come all this way just to watch us shuffle dusty papers around?
The treasure vault of Alzadaal III...
And you're looking for companions to join you on this expedition?
I would dearly love to accompany you, of course, but I'm afraid I'm committed to another task. On the subject of which, I had hoped to ask for your assistance...
Then again, it's not so urgent that it can't wait until you've returned.
You should go, Raha. I'll stay here and mind the shop, as it were.
Are you sure? I'd hate to leave you shorthanded...
I'm sure. Just try to be back before too many moons have passed.
Well! I guess we're off on another adventure already!
Have you asked anyone else to come along?
Then might I suggest we invite Y'shtola?
Ever since the Scions disbanded, she's spent most of her time cloistered within the Great Gubal Library, hoping to piece together a method to traverse the rift.
It would seem, however, that whatever wisdom she sought there was not to be found. She arrived in Sharlayan the other day─we spoke briefly before she began her search of Noumenon.
Considering what you've told us of Alzadaal's extraordinary feats, I do believe Y'shtola would be more than interested to hear what you have to say.
Splendid. Then let us head to the archives at once.
Wait, before you go─I have another potential member to volunteer, if you've room to spare. Urianger.
He sent the Students a request for materials, you see─treatises on the architecture of treasure vaults and the like.
From what I can gather, the Loporrits are looking to make “improvements” to their own creation, and wish to learn more about how we build things down here.
So why not take Urianger with you? Let him study Alzadaal's Legacy firsthand.
None can deny the benefit of seeing something with your own eyes.
If our expedition leader has no objections, I say we extend Urianger an invitation once we've spoken with Y'shtola.
Safe travels, you two. But don't forget: I'd still like your help with that other matter I mentioned.
Right! Then it's off to the library!
When you've finished with your treasure hunt, do come back and visit me. I think you'll be very interested in this request we've received.
Well, she wasn't hard to find, at least...
I've never known Y'shtola to doze off in the middle of research before...
Mmm... I close my eyes for one moment...
How long have you two been here?
Did you now?
Nor did I want to fall asleep.
...Something to that effect.
I must have been studying for two...three days straight before exhaustion finally claimed me.
As you know, I've been researching ways to travel from the Source to one of its reflections.
Well...looking for hints, at least. I don't expect to find a simple set of instructions tucked away in some dark corner of the library.
So I've been skimming through the stacks, hoping to uncover even a partial mention of any similar feats in the past.
A means to travel between worlds exists, and you can be sure I will find a way to employ it...
So I promised Runar, but 'twould seem I've set myself a nigh-impossible task.
You needn't be so hard on yourself.
The leap I made with the Crystal Tower was not achieved in an afternoon─it was the culmination of a collective effort spanning generations.
Oh, you think me discouraged? I assure you, 'tis quite the opposite.
A daunting challenge and the time to sink my teeth into it? I feel like a fresh-faced student again.
A scholar in her element.
Indeed. Was there something else you wished to ask of me?
Alzadaal is no minor figure in Hannish history, and much is known about his family.
But this is the first I've heard of a descendant surviving a trip to another world.
If those tales are true, then he may have left behind some clue as to how it was accomplished.
An invitation to delve into one of the world's lingering mysteries? As if I could refuse.
And whence do we embark upon this expedition?
Akyaali, by ship─but before that, we thought to extend an invitation to Urianger as well. He was in Thaumazein, last we heard.
Then by all means, let us recruit him and be on our way.
I've visited Labyrinthos on several occasions recently, but I've not set foot in Thaumazein since the day we boarded the Ragnarok...
I don't see Thancred anywhere. Was he not supposed to be traveling with Urianger?
Ah, our illustrious champion.
Cloaked in the mantle of the common explorer, fame set aside in thy pursuit of simple adventure.
I am told a new expedition is in the offing.
And thee. As ever, thou art the picture of strength.
He left to attend to some personal errand, but should be returning ere long.
You've been keeping yourself busy, I trust?
True to our plan, Thancred and I embarked upon a pilgrimage of sorts, with an eye for gauging the state of those lands through which we passed.
Our travels were interrupted, however, by a request for aid from our befurred lunar allies.
As you may recall, the Loporrits had been seeking new purpose for the moon─another role through which it might serve to benefit mankind. The Forum hath been working to advise them in this endeavor, but I returned to offer mine own counsel.
And this has what to do with treasure vaults exactly...?
Ah, you have learned of my predicament from Mistress Krile.
I know not whence they acquired such knowledge, but the Loporrits now stand convinced that adventurers delight in treasure hunts.
Thus with their newly built “wonderland of riches and mystery” do they hope to entice all manner of daring delvers to the moon. So earnest and innocent was their desire to bring joy to the world that I found myself powerless to refuse them my cooperation...
But what of you, my friends? Why are you come to Labyrinthos?
Fascinating. This is, indeed, a most fortuitous opportunity.
I should be honored to accept thine invitation.
How long hath it been, I wonder, when last our actions were not impelled by fate or desperation?
Aye, though I cherish the Scions' accomplishments, 'tis pleasant to not have the weight of the world upon our shoulders for a change.
Counting Estinien, we number five now, yes? Without knowing what traps or perils await unwary feet, we may be wise to refrain from recruiting others.
I agree. Between us, we should have the skills to handle whatever situation may arise. Shall we be on our way?
What, no time to spare a word for the grizzled old bard?
All is well, I trust?
A wasted trip, I'm afraid. I'd hoped to catch up with a former mentor while you parleyed with the rabbits, but it seems our paths were not to cross.
That's because we didn't travel by experimental aetheryte. It's astounding what a lack of nausea does for one's sense of well-being.
Having an astrologian beside you on the road is surprisingly convenient. And it doesn't hurt that he's making strides with his light-hearted banter.
In any case, as we made our way around Ilsabard, we saw that much of the continent was in various stages of chaos.
A certain amount of disorder is to be expected─the Final Days are over, and the people no longer have a common threat binding them together.
But that's the thing with these fledgling troubles, eh? You need to keep an eye out lest they mature into full-grown headaches.
So. For what reason have so many esteemed personages seen fit to gather?
Beneath the waters of the Bounty, you say? I see you've already stolen away my traveling partner with the promise of unexplored ruins and scholarly glory.
Nay, 'tis not for mine own indulgence, but rather the fulfillment of my commitment to the Loporrits.
Ah, of course... And if you have Estinien rounding out your group, you likely have all the members you need.
Feeling left out? I could put in a good word for you, if you like.
We may have been “released” from our obligations, but I'll never be free of that merciless wit of yours, will I?
In all seriousness, 'tis best I sit this one out. Too many former Scions consorting with one another might be seen as a cause for concern in certain quarters.
I'll return to my usual reconnaissance, and scout out the situation in the Far East. Feel free to share if you come across any interesting revelations.
Till we meet again.
Shall we also hasten our departure? Ser Estinien will wonder what hath become of us.
Ah, the thrill of imminent adventure! I never tire of this feeling.
Just imagine the possibilities...
In my travels, I spied many a child wandering alone─orphans, in all likelihood. Though homes razed by beasts and blasphemies can be rebuilt, the void left by those we have lost cannot so easily be filled...
I will pray to Sanduruva for your safe return. May the wealth of Her blessings guide you to the treasure you seek...
I send you to recruit G'raha and you return with an entire survey party.
I hope Matsya's boat is sturdy enough to carry us all...
What he means is, we are grateful for the use of one of your precious fishing vessels.
We are more than glad for the chance to provide it. I ask only that you take care to steer clear of the reefs in the shallows there.
Aye, we will keep an eye out.
Despite his misgivings, I wager Mehrahd remains in that merchant's employ...
Alzadaal III... I confess I am somewhat embarrassed that the tale of his journey to another world escaped my notice. Could it be more than simple folklore?
And what of the treasure he supposedly brought back? This undersea vault may hold relics from another reflection!
My friends, we should temper our expectations. The map doth promise ruins, but beyond that we know not what we will find.
Not until we find it, aye.
So let us dispense with the conjecture and set sail for the vault.
None who enter these ruins come out alive... Well, we shall see about that.
The treasure vault of a satrap will surely be filled with diverse traps and devilish deterrents. Caution is paramount.
I am aware that this story about an otherworldly journey may be just that─a story. But even the wildest tale often contains a few grains of truth, and that is worth investigating.
One can only spend so many days hunched over a desk before it begins to take its toll. A spot of vigorous exploration is exactly what I needed!
Time to learn just how authentic our map truly is...
Our adventure begins!
