Hm? What's that noise?
Wicked white! Runaway Talos!
Call the guard!
Stay back, all of you!
Is that...!?
Darling, you're back!
Well of course I'm back. You didn't s─
Dear─ Dearest─ I─ I can't─
Oh! Oh dear...
Thank you.
I'm sorry, my darling... It's just, the sight of you filled me with such joy, I couldn't help myself...
It's all right, dear. I should just have come out and said what it was I was intending, instead of entrusting the task to a hastily scribbled letter.
Does that mean you'll do it?
Well, I'm here, aren't I? I mean, not that my absence signified any unwillingness, you understand.
Naught could be further from the truth! I only left to enlist the aid of the former mayor's senior advisor.
And now that I have it, I believe I am ready to take office.
Oh, how wonderful!
Ghht! Please!
That was quite a reception. One Master Chai will struggle to forget.
More seriously, the arrival of the Talos has seized the public's attention.
Once word has spread around Eulmore, it will be that much simpler to gather one and all so that Master Chai can make his inaugural address.
No need to fret, Forename. I have never felt better. <cough>
And not at all overawed by the prospect of addressing the assembled masses of Eulmore...
As for where to do it... If we're to accommodate everyone who might feasibly wish to attend, I suppose the only place large enough would be the Emergent.
Then I will go and spread the word among the citizens─both free and bonded─that they are to assemble there to meet their new mayor.
You there, uh...Kai-Shirr, was it? Would you go and inform the residents of Gatetown and the Derelicts?
'Course I will!
Good lad. I will let the guards know not to bar the way to Vauthry's chambers.
...It goes without saying that I expect the Warrior of Darkness to attend─assuming she's available? Might as well see it through to the bitter end, eh? The doorman at the Crown Lift will show you up.
Ah, yes. Master Chai told us to expect you. The Emergent is already filling up with people of all persuasions─free and bonded, citizens and non-citizens.
But for you, our guest of honor, we have reserved a place at the front. Right this way, miss.
Ah, er... Ahem...
Go on, dear.
Thank you all for gathering here today.
Before going any further─could I...could I ask the free citizens of Eulmore to look around?
'Tis a sight none of us would ever have seen under Lord Vauthry's rule.
Not only do we stand in the familiar presence of those we once called the bonded...
...But today we welcome the peoples of the Derelicts and Gatetown too.
Today we welcome the Warriors of Darkness, come to bear witness to Eulmore's new beginning.
As you know, an election was recently held, at the end of which I had the honor of being chosen to succeed Lord Vauthry.
You place great faith in me, and I promise to do my utmost to live up to your expectations. And I will seek always to carry out the duties of this office with integrity and fairness.
Always, I say, but not forever. Let it be known that I do not intend to hold this post indefinitely. I consider myself but an acting mayor who will serve only for the interim, while Eulmore is reshaped according to a new set of values.
No longer can we think of ourselves as divided. As the free and the bonded. Citizens and non-citizens.
The systems put in place by Lord Vauthry must be undone. But even as we tear down the old, we must give thought to the new. To what manner of nation Eulmore should become.
Whatever the answer may be, it cannot be decided by one man alone. And so I propose that an open forum be held, that we might all discuss how best to strive towards a better future.
However, there can be no talk of the morrow unless we first address the issues of today.
Securing new sources of food, rebuilding relations with our neighbors, re-establishing industry─there is much and more that needs to be done.
Too much for a mere man of business. And so I pledge instead to do everything in my power to ensure our city's security and stability while we all work together to see these problems solved.
The road before us will not be easy, and I know full well how daunting the prospect of honest labor may seem to some of you...
But we must accept the reality of our circumstances. We must move forward.
This much we owe to ourselves, and to the brave heroes who risked their lives to bring back the night.
Once we have shored up our city's foundations, and regained some semblance of normality, let us reconvene to speak of the future.
Until then, I humbly ask that you lend me, and each other, your strength. For Eulmore!
That was a fine speech, Master Chai. I believe your words stirred every soul in attendance.
Stirred them to action, I hope. If I have learned anything from all of this, it is that change begins with the individual.
'Tis but a matter of finding the strength to take the first step.
Assuming my fellow Eulmorans can, it shall be my honor and privilege to help them walk this road we have chosen.
But we must not forget the individuals who made all of these changes possible.
Were it within my power, I would carve a tribute to your heroism into the very stone upon which this city stands.
I hate to change the subject, darling...but now that you have officially taken office, have you given any thought to your mayoral seat...?
We will not be moving into the Emergent, dearest. It's too big, for one thing, and too far from the people for another. We will retain our current residence, and I will govern here in the Parlor.
Oh, I was hoping you'd say that! I much prefer the view from the Parlor.
Beggin' your pardon, Master Chai... But have you got time for a word?
Ah, y-yes. Yes of course, er...Hathen...bet?
Aye, that's me. I liked your speech. But there's folk outside these walls as don't even have enough food to last till tomorrow, and more who're countin' their crumbs. If ye've a plan to change that, I want to help set things in motion.
Then we've much to discuss.
No sooner do I take office than my work begins in earnest. Well, I suppose I brought it upon myself. Thank you again for your help, Forename. I hope to see you again before long.
What a day... I dunno what it means exactly, but I do know I've got plenty to think about.
I sense we all have a great deal to consider.
I had resolved to remain here until such time as Eulmore's future was secured, but it is clear to me now that the city is in capable hands.
I have every confidence they will find their way, and I believe it is time we went on ours.
So Alphinaud's leaving too, is he? Seems like everyone's moving on. Everything's changing...
I've been thinking about what I should do in all this. Like I told you, I spent most of my life dreaming about living here with my friends. In paradise.
That paradise is gone, but something better's taken its place. And I reckon I want to be a part of it.
This “Eulmore for the people” Master Chai's been going on about ain't gonna build itself, after all. Not that I'm much of a builder.
Me and my friends'll find a way to make a difference, though─help keep things changing for the better.
A far nobler dream than the one to which you clung before─and one I am happy to say we share. Whatever path you choose, I will pray for your success.
Well, when you put it like that, there's no going back now, is there? We've got a few ideas on how we can do our bit. Just a matter of taking the first step!
Truly, to see Kai-Shirr thus inspired by our actions is inspiring in itself.
Yet however much I may wish to stay and see what comes of his efforts here in Eulmore, we have matters of our own to attend to. Come, we should return to the Crystal Tower. Mayhap Beq Lugg's studies have borne fruit in our absence.
Do you have business with the Crystal Exarch? Just say the word, and I would be happy to escort you to the Ocular.
Welcome back. We are given to understand a new mayor has taken office in Eulmore.
Indeed. Our good friend Master Chai was elected by popular vote, and─after some considerable soul-searching─chose to accept the post.
It is a shame you weren't able to attend his inaugural speech. Though I have no doubt you will see more of him in the future.
But tell me, how fared you in preparing the white auracite?
Our work...did not proceed quite as expected.
In your absence, we had a frank discussion on the principles of soul transference, and concluded at length that white auracite was ill-suited for our purposes.
But Urianger─did you not say that, compared to the massy soul of an Ascian, the stone could house one of ours with ease?
That I did. And armed as we are with Beq Lugg's invaluable insight, 'twould indeed prove a trifling matter─were we to disregard the inviolable link 'twixt mind and soul...
...A link which would─we did belatedly realize─be weakened most perilously in the process of rendering our souls dormant, as auracite doth require. Thus, the shedding of these fleshly simulacra, and the surfeit of aether which compriseth them, would in all likelihood deprive us of our psyches as well.
It would, theoretically, be possible to channel your minds into the auracite instead, but we would more than likely sacrifice your souls in the process.
Which is why we have abandoned that plan, and instead devoted our time to finding a means by which mind and soul might be transported together.
Then we are no closer to a solution than when we first began...
It is a vexing conundrum indeed. But one for which the Crystal Exarch has posited a most intriguing solution.
When our discussions turned to the transference of memories and the psyche, I could not help but be reminded of a technique with which I have personal experience.
Forename, do you recall what we learned of my eyes from our encounter with Doga and Unei?
I speak of the Royal Eye of the Allagan imperial line, gifted to my forebears through the blood and memories of the ancient Allagans. It is by this gift that I am able to control the Crystal Tower.
If we were to gain an understanding of the technology by which the Allagans were able to accomplish this transference, perhaps then we could keep mind and soul together.
Imagine, if you will, a device like unto a soul crystal, replete not only with our worldly memories, but also the bountiful energies of the soul.
That is our current avenue of investigation. And we will follow it wheresoever it leads.
While we are thus engaged, I think it best that Forename return to the Source and inform Krile and the others of our findings.
Agreed. I imagine Tataru will be relieved to hear we've made progress of a sort.
Then I would beg leave to relay our findings unto Thancred and Ryne, and to assist where I may in their investigation of the Empty.
Yes, please do. Should we have need of your counsel we will not hesitate to summon you.
Give our regards to Tataru, won't you?
Forename! You're back!
How did everything go in the First? Wait─don't tell me. Krile will be here shortly, and she'll want to hear too. She's just tending to the others. Their bodies, I mean. Gods, I don't think I'll ever get used to saying that... Anyway, you can tell us everything the moment she gets here!
Sorry to keep you waiting.
I have carried out the treatment as per Master Matoya's instructions. It should slow the destabilization of their corporeal aether quite significantly.
But tell me, how fare our friends in the First?
So this Beq Lugg's the First's leading authority on soulcraft, are they? Sounds promising!
And Urianger's proffered solution of white auracite is rather ingenious now that I think of it.
Well, while they press on with their preparations, you may rest assured we will continue to do our part here.
Oh. You're back.
And none the worse for wear, I see.
Estinien! Oh, thank the gods. We've been worried sick! Did you lose your linkpearl or something!?
The situation in Garlemald has become more complicated. I was making my escape from the capital when I ran into one of yours─Riol. He thought it best we come straight here.
More complicated how?
Hm. Where to begin?
After entering the Empire via Radz-at-Han, I went about my mission of investigating Black Rose.
It was then, inside a provincial factory, that I encountered the one who styles himself Shadowhunter. Gaius Baelsar.
Our goals being apparently aligned, we joined forces and ventured on into the heart of the capital─to the very imperial palace itself.
There, we found a man whom all assumed dead.
But his soul lives on. And he has wrested back his flesh.
Zenos yae Galvus.
Nor did the surprises end there. For no sooner had we arrived than he murdered his sire in cold blood. The Emperor is dead. This sent Gaius into a rage, and he charged in, blade drawn...
What's wrong?
I've seen him in action. His body at least. You will not best him alone.
Nay...death will not come easily to that thing. If you would join me, then by all means...
For what good it will do...
The Black Wolf...and the Azure Dragoon. I suppose this might suffice.
Come, then.
Ah, the simple pleasure of one's own flesh. Truly, there is no place like home.
Abomination...
Whatever he is, Forename was barely a match for him. If we stay here much longer─
