......
Gwoooar!
Gwoooh... <gurgle>
The boisterous howling hath been quieted... By thy hand, I presume.
Everything all right? I thought I heard a dragon, or something resembling one.
Ah. I see what's happened here... Was that your child?
Perhaps. Some eggs within Ahm Nohl are indeed mine. If life within one did quicken, the beast thou hast slain may be of my blood.
Yet I do not recognize it, twisted and malformed as it is.
Not a dragon in truth, but a reminder of our failure. A testament to our shame.
Explain.
They descended from the heavens. Cold, heartless machines. And with them rode war and death.
With fire and fury, rage and rancor, we gave answer. 'Twas a long and bloody battle, but only the beginning...
Untold chaos and destruction swept over the star. In the end, the invaders were victorious.
Yet when they looked upon their prize, they deemed it unfit for requisition. We were abandoned to our ruin.
The survivors sought to put away their shame. To rebuild. A futile effort.
In purest soil replete with aether did we once cultivate our nesting grounds. But our lands were barren, and any eggs nurtured in such desolation were fated to rot.
What few survive to hatch emerge as...abominations. We shall have no new progeny.
But there are dragons among you capable of journeying to other stars.
That there are. Many would make the attempt, each bearing a clutch of eggs.
The richest stars were home to the harshest rulers, and the arrival of dragons incited contests for supremacy.
When the fires faded, the wars lost and won, they too were reduced to ash and waste.
'Tis the curse of those who seek life─to be drawn into conflict, to conquer or be conquered.
A vicious cycle we now choose to break. We tire of conflict. Of everything...
We wait now in sweet, merciful silence. Free from strife and suffering. Still as stone...
Wait! You claim your kind is doomed, but there is another star─
......
......
They want only to brood in silence. To be left alone with their grief until time itself comes to an end.
The sole reward for senseless bloodshed. A pain I understand...and wish that I did not.
What fools we were...
But now isn't the time for such thoughts.
The others will want to hear what we've learned. Come.
With luck, they'll have learned something to help us devise a plan of action.
Did your exploration prove eventful? Converse with any dragons?
I chanced to gain audience with several dragons ere we returned, though I expect their tales are much the same as those you heard.
We would hear what the dragons had to share with you. Even if it's no different from what they told Urianger, it would have value.
Good to see you made it back in one piece. The more I see of this place, the more bewildering it becomes.
Were you able to establish any meaningful contact with the dragons?
I see... They wish to escape what they perceive to be a cycle of conflict.
Thank you, Forename. Estinien.
As for our part, I believe we are more acutely aware of our confines than before...
We started by traversing the perimeter of the island, to see if there might be a path leading off of it. Sadly, there was nothing to be found.
There's no small amount of debris floating about. Could there be enough to serve as a bridge to lead us elsewhere?
I considered that, and so I tried throwing a stone onto a potential platform to judge its integrity...
But it never reached its mark. As it crossed an invisible threshold just beyond the boundaries of this island, it vanished, only to reappear above me, and fall at my feet. I would not be too quick to presume that what we see outside this space is as it appears.
Which is why I returned to the Ragnarok, and asked the Loporrits to search for a potential path.
However, the ship's instruments failed to provide conclusive data on the surrounding area. Until we know more, I think it too risky to attempt flying to another island.
What Meteion told us before─that emotions dictate reality here─might be the key. But I'm not entirely sure what emotion might manifest a bridge to lead us to safety.
So what you're saying is, we've no way forward.
At present, aye. If it is indeed emotion that governs this island, perhaps it is not Meteion's, but the dragons' that holds us here.
They tire of conflict, and have chosen a path of oblivion to escape it.
Or rather, they have chosen no path at all. Meaning there is no way for the dragons, or anyone here on this island, to advance.
A sound theory, disheartening though it may be.
If that is the case, what recourse do we have? They are not like to be persuaded to help us.
Their reasoning is built on a history of turmoil and strife. Without irrefutable proof the future is not as bleak as they believe it to be...
Mayhap persuasion is not the answer.
Meteion meant to unmake us then and there on the Ragnarok, and she would have succeeded if not for Thancred's determination.
She conceded it was strong enough to overpower the despair that otherwise rules Ultima Thule, and reshape it to a degree. Perhaps it can be done again in like manner─by overpowering the prevailing emotions.
'Twas Ultima Thule's architect, Meteion herself, against whom Thancred did pit himself in a clash of wills. Though I marked no leader among them, as such, I did chance to encounter a dragon possessed of despair far more potent than most. Potent enough, mayhap, to dictate the course for others─and thus, their domain, to follow.
He spoke but few words, carefully chosen, their tone and timber alone threatening to rend my heart in twain. Challenging his desire to remain may allow us to alter the island upon which we stand.
Alas, I fear my vaunted rhetoric availed me naught against his calcifying heart. But mayhap one of you will fare better...?
Then I shall guide thee. Al End, they call him, in the dragon tongue. Thou wilt find him nearby, eyes fixed upon the water.
Well, what have we to lose? Let's get going.
He remaineth as he was when I first approached. Entombed in melancholy.
I see... Perhaps I could─
I'll handle this.
So. Waiting to die like all the others, are you?
