Look! Th-There's somebody up there! On top of the palace!
No. Stand back.
We shall stay the Flood.
But this is what I want! It's my sacrifice to make!
Your time has not yet come.
When all hangs in the balance, you must give them hope.
Minfilia!
This place...
You... You're...
Ours is a meeting long overdue. Full glad am I that we may finally speak.
My dear, sweet child... Yours is a burden none should ever be forced to bear.
Such pain and suffering you have endured, yet still you came. For this and more, I thank you.
I've lost count of the times I've almost given up. If people hadn't helped me every step of the way, I never would have made it.
Yet here you stand, resolved. Now...tell me your heart's desire.
To defeat the sin eaters, and bring this world back from the brink!
The remaining Wardens have hidden themselves from us. But with the power of the Oracle, I thought we might be able to find them...
Indeed you could. Their radiance would be unmistakable.
But know, my child, that the power you seek will come at a price.
We stand now at the crossroads. A decision must be made.
'Tis only natural to be afraid. To hesitate.
But for your many trials, you have grown stronger and wiser. And with the love and support of those you hold dear, you have grown to love yourself.
The Flood has washed away so much of this world.
So many people and places and possibilities─and all the heroes who fought to protect them.
Yet here the Scions are, trying so, so hard to help those few of us who remain. And seeing how tirelessly they work, how completely committed they are to the cause...I can't help but believe.
But I want to do more than just watch and cheer. I want to make a difference.
I want to help them, like they helped me─and maybe even inspire others to do the same.
Coming together, providing for one another─that's the only way forward I can see. Since all of our heroes are gone, we'll just have to make heroes of ourselves.
'Tis a beautiful, wonderful dream. One we share.
Though my power was all but spent in staying the Flood, I prayed this final act would give hope to those who survived.
That selfsame hope lives on in you. It gives me comfort to know that the future is in capable hands.
If ever you should falter, remember this: no one, however powerful, is immune to the whisperings of doubt and despair.
Do not give in to them, but do not deny them either. Look instead to the light within, that you may continue to serve as a beacon to others.
Thank you, Minfilia, for believing in us. For believing in me.
Dearest friend...no words can express my gratitude to you for keeping her safe in these tumultuous times. You are a hero to us both.
But not even the most valiant heroes can stand alone.
Only together may you change the fate of two worlds.
<groan>
What happened? I remember speaking with Minfilia...and then...
Is something wrong?
A parting gift, I think.
Until now, I've walked the path she set before me. The path she set before all the Minfilias.
But she's given me a new path─a new life─that I can call my own.
And even though she's gone, I can still feel her...warm and calm and gentle.
I can feel the beating heart of the world, the Light that swells within it.
And the Lightwardens. There's one here in Amh Araeng.
Let's hurry back. The others need to know.
You don't think Thancred will be angry with me, do you?
I'd like to think so too, but... <sigh>
<sigh> I know there's no getting around it, but...
Would you mind going on ahead? I'll be right behind you. I promise.
Ah, there you are. We were worried.
Really? She wasn't the one that nearly got herself killed.
It's a good thing Urianger called on us when he did. You were at death's door when we found you.
But thanks to your timely ministrations, I was not obliged to walk through it.
Minfilia...?
You saw her.
I know I haven't exactly been pulling my weight up till now, but that's all going to change, starting today.
I'll do whatever it takes─whatever it takes to make Minfilia's dream a reality.
I can track the Lightwardens now. Maybe even help you fight them.
I'm glad you're back.
You don't have to say that, you know...
But I want to. You're family. How else would I feel?
She will need a name.
A name?
A name of her own. I would not have her walk in the shadow of another any longer.
And I think it a fitting tribute to our departed friend too. At the mention of Minfilia, I would remember the woman who preserved our fellowship when all seemed lost.
Do you remember what you were called before you were taken to Eulmore?
I'm sorry, I don't. I couldn't have been very old when it happened.
Then we must think of a new name. Suggestions?
If the lady herself has no preference, I think the honor should rightly fall to Thancred. After all they have been through together, he's practically a father to her.
Well spotted! I'm so glad you're here to explain these things.
And what exactly is that supposed to mean?
Oh, nothing.
What about... Ryne?
Ah. “Blessing” in Fae...
Wait! Doth this mean thou wert listening when I delivered my lectures on the pixies?
Not exactly. But that one word made an impression.
Of course, if it's not to your liking, I can think of something else.
Ryne... Yes, I rather like the sound of it.
Thank you.
That settles it, then. Welcome aboard, Ryne!
I won't let you down.
I honestly don't know how to repay you for all you've done, but I promise to do whatever I can to help.
Are you certain you're up to fighting so soon? I can't imagine the power of the Oracle is something one learns to wield in the space of a few hours.
Maybe not, but the presence of the Lightwardens is unmistakable to me now.
In fact, I sense one here in Amh Araeng, to the west. I think it might be hiding underground.
Underground? Then it's as we suspected!
We thought it prudent to take a brief survey of the area prior to your arrival.
To the west we found the remains of a site known as Malikah's Well.
If I recall correctly, the well was built in remembrance of one of the ancient kings of Nabaath Areng to serve as a source of respite from the desert heat.
It fell into disuse after the Flood, whereupon the miners of Amh Araeng thought to turn part of it into an excavation site.
Judging by its size, the underground waterways are no doubt extensive. The perfect hiding place for a Warden.
Ryne, are you certain you can track it down?
Leave it to me.
Then it's settled. We make for Malikah's Well.
It's here. I can taste its aether on the wind.
Then we've finally found our mark.
Let's put an end to this, Forename, and return the night sky to Amh Araeng.
The Warden's presence feels...familiar somehow. Now that I think about it, it reminds me of...
But that makes no sense. Sorry. I'm sure I'm just imagining things.
No need to worry about me. Urianger and Y'shtola were quite thorough in their ministrations.
A pity their magicks did nothing for my clothes.
At any rate, we cannot well stop now. Not after all Ryne and Minfilia have given to bring us this far.
Lest thou worry, I did relay unto Magnus word of thine untimely accident whilst I waited for thee to return from thine audience with the Oracle. He hath since reclaimed his Talos and trolley both, and meaneth to begin repairs anon.
For a blessing, the damage was but superficial, the leonine heart unmarred by Ran'jit's onslaught.
Our battle with the Warden of Holminster Switch was an eye-opening experience, to say the least. Alisaie and I have trained tirelessly that we might be better prepared for our next such encounter.
For Minfilia, and the countless souls who struggled to carry on her legacy, we must end this.
I can't help thinking about all the children at the Inn. Abandoned to wait for the inevitable.
So long as the Light holds sway here, there is no hope for them. But if we defeat the Wardens, if we restore the night, then maybe...maybe they can still be saved.
I was surprised to hear Ran'jit survived the fall. Though I suppose I did the same.
More surprising is how he so readily saw through our diversion.
A foe possessed of such cunning would be sufficient cause for concern in itself, but one capable of besting Thancred in combat too...? We would do well not to underestimate him when next we meet.
Can you sense the Warden, Ryne?
Yes, but I think it's further underground.
This tunnel seems to stretch on forever...
Is that a...giant armadillo!?
It's in the way is what it is.
Phew, glad that's over with.
Thankfully no one was hurt.
We need to climb down somehow.
Well there has to be a path somewhere...
With any luck this tunnel will lead down.
And into the heart of the Warden's lair.
Is this some sort of joke?
Gods, I'm soaked to the bone.
Looks like we're getting closer.
We're nearly there. I can feel it!
Oh gods, the boulders. They're filling with light!
There it is!
Well done, Ryne. Now to end this.
We've taken back the darkness!
At last.
It seems that Ryne was correct.
Thank goodness we succeeded.
That was a passing strange form for an eater.
Are you at all injured?
Don't get me wrong, I'm glad those travelers made it all the way to Nabaath Areng...
But when Urianger told me the Talos was in pieces, and the trolley didn't look much better, I couldn't help wondering what in the hells had gone on.
What indeed. At least the heart is in one piece. The rest is replaceable.
Looking at this mess, though, it's a miracle they survived...
Heh, you can say that again.
Wha─ What the!? Are you seeing this!?
The sky, it's... It...
At last. Night has returned to Amh Araeng.
We'll save this broken world yet, Tesleen. You see if we don't...
No doubt retreating in the wake of the Warden's demise.
Back to Kholusia. The last refuge of Light.
Home to our dear Lord Vauthry─who will no doubt do everything in his power to thwart us.
As well he should, for defeat there would spell the end for both him and his heavenly host.
There the fate of this star shall be decided.
We did it. We really did it. I only wish there were time to visit the Inn. We can but hope the return of night has granted the residents some shred of comfort.
They thought the world beyond changing. But today I think we proved them wrong.
We will fix this broken land, Forename. Together.
Are you feeling all right, Forename? After you defeated the Lightwarden, I could swear I saw its aether─
Uh...never mind. I'm still getting used to my powers. It's probably nothing.
I'm just relieved I was right about where the Warden was hiding.
The last one is hiding in Kholusia, isn't it? I can't feel it from here, believe it or not...
But perhaps we should head back to the Crystarium first. We have a lot to tell the Exarch...and I think we could all do with some rest.
She sees it too, then.
The others are with the Exarch. Before we join them, there is something I wish to confirm.
Tell me, Ryne─have you noticed anything peculiar about Forename's appearance of late? Anything at all? Speak freely. She won't mind.
Well...since Minfilia bequeathed her power to me, I've been able to see the Light inside her...though I didn't think anything of it at first. But after we defeated the Warden in Amh Araeng, I realized something was wrong.
You've absorbed its aether, Forename. And the Light within you has grown monstrous.
Then it is as I suspected.
How are you feeling?
Forename!
If naught is done, this will only get worse.
Ryne─with the power of the Oracle, you have gained some measure of control over Light, have you not? Is there anything you can do for her?
Extinguishing it is out of the question. Even at her strongest, Minfilia could only hold back the Light.
I might be able to suppress it...but I don't know for how long.
Then we have no choice but to rely on Urianger and his secrets.
If the next battle is to be the last, you may yet be able to play your part. But you will need all of your strength.
I will discuss strategy with the others and see that everything is made ready for our departure. You are to return to your chambers and rest until then. Understood?
Good. Whether you want it or not, you have most certainly earned some respite.
This is not the time for false bravado. Should your condition worsen, it could have dire consequences for us all.
Now please, return to your chambers and rest.
Hah. None of that cheek, or I will take you across my knee.
Now, off with you to the Pendants. We will call for you when the time comes.
Is everything all right, miss? You don't seem quite yourself.
Perhaps a hot meal and a freshly made bed will improve matters. Your room is ready, if you'd care to retire?
Very good. If you should have need of anything─anything at all─pray do not hesitate to call.
Sometimes the dead would rather not be disturbed. But enough about me─what of Amh Araeng?
I see. Minfilia's gone, then.
Which means the reason I must suffer this purgatory shall forever remain a mystery.
What's the matter? Are you all right?
What...what just happened?
Minfilia said my time had not yet come. That I still had a role to play.
Not even the most valiant heroes can stand alone...
No─ No, it couldn't be. There's only one hero in this room, and it is not me. I'm just a shadow, cursed to wander.
Ahem. Forgive the intrusion, but Minfilia─that is, Ryne and the others were asking after you.
Is everything all right?
That pain again? And did it pass?
Thank goodness for that. I would not wish to see you suffer.
Though I know only too well how much you have suffered on our behalf in recent days.
Indeed, I have no right to impose upon you further. Nevertheless, I must ask one thing of you.
That you survive this, no matter what.
When the dust settles, you must return to your world. For the battles to come and the wars yet unwon.
The final Lightwarden is all that stands between us and victory. There is still much we must do to prepare, but for now, I will see if there is aught that may remedy the strange affliction which plagues you.
Of that I have no doubt. Even if I had my pick of every reflection's heroes, I could not have asked for a finer champion.
Indeed it is. But for now put all such concerns from your mind.
Yes, I believe it will. Once the tyranny of light is ended, the people of the Crystarium will be safe, and the future that must be shall come to pass.
I'll not keep you from your rest any longer. Take as much time as you like.
No, this isn't right.
It would need to be later. After the liberation of Ala Mhigo, perhaps...
