Wait, aren't you...
Yes, you're her! The young lady who saved me from Vauthry!
I'd eaten enough meol to fall under his control, but you cured me. I wouldn't be alive today if not for you.
Oh, I remember you too! I'm glad to see you're doing well.
I only learned later that it was the Oracle of Light herself who saved me─saved all of us. I didn't know if I'd ever get the chance to express my gratitude...
I'm sure it was nothing for someone with your power, but thank you. Thank you, from the bottom of my heart.
What is this “meol”?
Food made from the Light-tainted flesh of sin eaters, you say?
I see. The more they ate, the more the Light's corruption spread.
Right. And because of that, they became susceptible to Vauthry's commands, as he could make the sin eaters do his bidding.
Thankfully, I was able to suppress Light's influence and free everyone from his control, and there seems to be no lingering effects.
You say that as if it were some small feat.
I've seen countless souls corrupted by Darkness. Someone with the power to heal them would be regarded as a great figure─and never know peace.
My gift has been a burden. Many have suffered for it. Died for it.
There were times when I wished I didn't have it. When I wanted to run away from everyone and everything.
But I had friends to encourage and guide me─to help me learn not just to embrace my gift, but to take charge of my life. To change my fate.
And so you did just that...
The people of this world are resilient indeed.
When I tended to the people after Vauthry fled, I wasn't sure how much of a difference it would make. It's a relief to see so many that I treated are alive and well.
My thanks again for your consideration, Forename. The rest, you may leave to us.
We appreciate the Crystarium's concern for the welfare of our people. May we continue to strengthen the ties between our two cities.
Brief though it was, it was wonderful to see you. Do visit again soon─hopefully when the fate of a world isn't weighing on your mind.
That a half-voidsent like me managed to escape the Flood of Darkness...
For all these years, I never stopped to wonder why. To wonder if I had a greater part to play.
Well. Perhaps it's time I took charge and considered what I might be able to do for others.
The answer is here in the First, and I will find it.
If we have no further business here, let's move on. Where to next?
Slitherbough, the home of the Night's Blessed in the Rak'tika Greatwood. We'll explain the situation to their leader, Runar.
I've not visited here in some time, but it's much as I remember. Which is good.
Little wonder those who revere Darkness would gather here. Yet dark as this wood may seem, it is a blazing torch next to the void.
Forename! You're a sight for sore eyes, my friend. Will you be staying long in Slitherbough?
Though having said that, I suspect this isn't just a social call...
Hmm, when you put it that way... Very well. On behalf of my people, I would hear what you have to say.
Ah, so it is more of a formal visit. That's fine. Why don't we get right to it, then?
What? Your world─Master Matoya's world─is in grave danger!?
Master Matoya...?
(Y'shtola. She took another name in accordance with custom when she lived among the Night's Blessed. They believe Light taints everything that it touches─even their true names. Out of respect, don't speak hers here.)
You are Zero, yes? The one come from a world consumed by Darkness. I struggle to conceive of such a place...
A pitch-black pall shrouds the sky, which neither the light of the sun nor the stars can pierce. It is the opposite of what you once knew here in Norvrandt.
That being the case, I'm sure you can relate to our situation.
All too well. You have my deepest sympathies.
And in order to beat back the Darkness in your world, you would harness Light from ours...
'Tis a simple yet brilliant idea! Only Master Matoya could have conceived of such.
That Norvrandt is still in her thoughts... That we are still...
So...you're not opposed to our plan?
We Night's Blessed may place our faith in the Dark, but we have never sought to force our beliefs upon others.
If your deliverance lies in Light, then by all means avail yourselves of it.
I'm surprised. From what I was told of your people, I was certain you would disapprove of our methods.
Do not mistake our reverence for Darkness as a desire for it to be ascendant. Rather, in Darkness there is a peace that we seek to make our own through prayer and self-reflection.
And while Light may have wrought suffering in our world, anything in excess can be harmful. Even Darkness, as you and yours know all too well.
It is the wielder who is righteous or evil─not the weapon. If you would wield Light for a noble cause, then who are we to deny you?
...An easy thing for me to say now that night has been restored to our world, perhaps. Nevertheless.
I wish you the best in your fight, Zero. May light shine your way in the darkness.
Now then! To mark this joyous occasion, I must offer you a proper welcome to Slitherbough.
You might find this interesting, Zero.
If you say so.
Right, let us begin with the customary greeting.
Forename, I trust you remember how to announce yourself as a friend of the Blessed?
Our first visit here was nerve-racking but exciting. I'll never forget how the villagers warmed to me when I spoke the words.
This is a watchword, I take it.
Don't tell me you've forgotten the words. What would Master Matoya think?
allin tuta
Friends old and new, I bid you welcome to Slitherbough.
Allin tuta... What does it mean?
In the language of Ronka, it is one of several ways one might say “good evening.” This greeting allows us to quickly discern friend from foe.
A simple expression, but in a world bereft of night, the words held deep meaning.
They were a reminder of the world as it was, when the sun and the moon and the stars yet danced across the sky, and we wished one another well as the day gave way to night.
A communal tradition. So the words serve to bind us.
Indeed. We are no longer strangers, you and I. Next, we shall have you cleansed of Light's impurities. Present yourself to Davith in yonder room. He will be glad to assist you.
I'm reminded of when you first came to us. When Master Matoya was still here...
Ah, but don't let me keep you. Go on and join your friends.
It's nice to guide a new friend through the same experiences, isn't it?
No sooner had I greeted this Davith than he poured a pot of water over me. I wasn't expecting a literal cleansing...
