What is it? If you don't mind, I'm rather busy.
Ohhh gods, my stomach... Ungh...
Aether sickness? No, no, nothing so unusual. In my hurry to get back to work, I just ate a little too quickly...
Ugh, food is the last thing I need right now... Go and sell your fish to someone else!
Ugh, food is the last thing I need right now... Go and sell your fish to someone else!
N-Never mind, we just approached him at a bad time─and timing is everything, yes?
Would that I could, but I can't afford to be idle. Like as not, circumstances will surely get worse before they get better.
And so I'm working as hard as I can while I still can, the better to be prepared.
W-Well, it's not like I'm trying to impress anyone...
Now, if you'll excuse me, I must be getting back to work. Take care.
Now, if you'll excuse me, I must be getting back to work. Take care.
T-Too bad we couldn't make a sale, but we did manage to build something of a relationship...?
By stockpiling supplies. For that, I need to earn coin so I can buy food, medicine, what have you.
Aye, well, fish wouldn't be bad, but I don't want to go through the hassle of preserving them myself. I'd rather buy stuff that's ready to store.
So I'm afraid I'll have to pass on your fish. Now, if you'll excuse me, I must be getting back to work.
So I'm afraid I'll have to pass on your fish. Now, if you'll excuse me, I must be getting back to work.
T-Too bad we couldn't make a sale, but we did manage to build something of a relationship...?
Oh, er...we do have some dried products too—Thavnairian cucumber and puff-paya fish.
They're the last of the batch, so if you're interested, you can have them for a discount.
Truly!? By all means, I'll take them all!
Truly!? By all means, I'll take them all!
Heh heh, you remembered what I told you earlier—that I preserve what I catch. Which serves to show the importance of being attentive!
Thank you so much for your demonstration—it was a truly eye-opening experience. Come, let us return to the pier.
Come, let us return to the pier. I wish to thank you properly for your kind help.
O-Oh, did you have other things you needed to do? In that case, I'll head back to the pier for now...
Unlike most, I'm fortunate to still have work, but there's no guarantee it'll last. I need to work as much as I can, while I still can.
Th-Thank you so much for showing me how to talk to customers.
Though you didn't manage to sell any fish in the end...but the way you fearlessly approached strangers gave me much courage!
When I peddle my wares, I'll remember your example and endeavor to be fearless too.
You managed to sell to one of the three people you approached. It was difficult, but when you put your mind to it, you succeeded.
Though you did fail too...but there are lessons to be learned in both success and failure! By applying yours, I'll endeavor to become a better peddler.
You managed to sell to two of the three people you approached. Adventurers do indeed have great conversational skills!
Watching you at work was very enlightening. By applying the lessons I've learned, I hope to one day peddle as well as you!
You managed to sell to everyone you approached. Any merchant in Radz-at-Han would be envious of your success!
Watching you at work was truly inspiring! By applying the lessons I've learned, I hope to one day peddle as well as you!
Still...there's only so much I can do alone. I hope that things will return to normal for Khalzahl soon...
I thought I heard a familiar voice, and who should it be but Matsya...
Khalzahl! H-Have you finished your business at the guild?
So you were there too...
Forgive me... Try as I might, I can't find any buyers.
With no ships coming in and hardly any going out, there simply aren't any options. At this rate...
So...you can't buy my fish anymore?
I'm sorry, Matsya. I truly am. But for now, you must peddle your own goods.
But...by myself, I can't...
I want to help you, I do. But as it stands, I can barely help myself.
I've poured my all into the consortium, and I'll be damned if I let it fall apart. I've friends and families depending on me, and I can't─I won't─fail them. The Sisters as my witness.
Khalzahl...
N-Not to worry. Using what I've learned from you, I'm sure I'll manage...somehow.
Well, I had best return to my village. My thanks again, and please take care on the road.
There you are. Gotten over the aether sickness, have you?
Mayhap owing to the island's small size, the tower's impact upon the people's lives doth appear more pronounced here than in Eorzea.
I see you've been busy. Managed to learn a tidbit or two, I trust?
I see... We also heard that the tower is affecting many locals' livelihoods, but to think that it would be to such an extent...
For another notable─if not wholly unexpected─discovery, disappearances and kidnappings are disturbingly commonplace.
As before, the culprits are almost certainly tempered imperial soldiers.
And as before, they mean to use the faith of their hapless thralls to call forth a lunar primal. Business as usual for the Telophoroi.
Helping a struggling fisherman you've only just met to peddle his catch... Yes, you would do something like that.
That Matsya fellow you were helping─he's Arkasodara, is he not?
Apparently, 'tis almost exclusively his people that are being kidnapped. Should he be traveling alone?
If summoning is this perpetrator's aim, it doth stand to reason that Arkasodara would be their primary targets.
For 'tis the faith of their ancestors which prevaileth in this land, and many are devout adherents still.
We'd better go after him. Akyaali lies to the west, as I recall─the same direction as Krile's acquaintance, incidentally.
It's settled, then. Keep your eyes peeled while we make for the village.
It's settled, then. Keep your eyes peeled while we make for the village.
It's settled, then. Keep your eyes peeled while we make for the village.
N-No! Leave me alone! Help! Somebody, help!
N-No! Leave me alone! Help! Somebody, help!
