[Long has it been since my name was called.]
[Why do you wake me, little neighbor?]
[To the bottom of the western sea we go. Pray lend us your back and your breath.]
[This world is in twilight. I wait for the sun to set. I wish only to sleep.]
Oh dear. I don't need to speak Fae to know that didn't go well...
My [adorable sapling]! You've learned to call me at last!
And where do you go? On a trip? A journey? I knew you wouldn't give up without a fight!
Oh, my precious mortal. I shall help you in any way I can!
[Sleepy Bismarck, you old pixie! These are my precious, precious saplings.]
[Let their wish be the king's command.]
[What a rare thing to awaken to.]
[My beautiful king. If it be thy wish, then so shall it be done.]
Be sure to scrub this one's teeth for him upon your return. It's only good manners.
It will be done, Your Majesty. Our deepest thanks for your timely intervention.
An agreement is reached, and your departure is at hand! You wingless ones best hold on tight!
May the blessings of the fae keep you safe, [shining souls]!
[To the western sea we go. Wrapped in my breath, I will see you to your destination, little neighbors.]
And just like that, it's all gone back to the way it was...
What was you expecting? Hundred years of honey and rainbows?
Seeing them Eulmore types wake up and smell the ashes was miracle enough for me.
Ah, but the magic in the air when that Ladder started moving...hah! And when that great hulking Talos rose up, gods...
I could live a thousand years and never behold anything so amazing...
What the─! Do you see that!?
What a monster! Where did it even come from!?
Uh, wha... Wh-Whoa there...
It's not stopping...
Run! Run!
[I have fulfilled my duty. I return now to the lake.]
[I have not flown in an age. It was...pleasant. May your journey be a safe one, little neighbors.]
Wow...
The breath of Bismarck. See how it swells to form a dome beneath the waves...
The waters recede. The Tempest's floor is laid bare.
In defiance of the blinding sky, this place holds fast to its gloom.
The last refuge of he who denies the light with every fiber of his being.
You stand at the precipice, hero. Journey unto the Heart of Darkness. Finish it.
Haaa... Haaa...<gulp>Full glad am I...that Bismarck was true to his word.
We are arrived in the Tempest, safe and dry. 'Tis here that we shall find the lair of Emet-Selch, and, I believe, the imprisoned Exarch as well.
For an Ascian alone, it is of course a trifling matter to flee unto the rift─yet I suspect such travel is nigh impossible with a mortal in one's custody.
Nay, he would not soon risk his prize when the Exarch's very body serveth as the key to the Crystal Tower and its powers of temporal transportation.
Thus am I all but certain that this underwater realm harboreth our friend and enemy both. We have but to find them.
Now, as for where we should be looking, I rather doubt Emet-Selch will be sitting around out in the open.
I propose we follow the slope down towards the deeper trenches, and keep an eye out for rock formations large enough to house a stronghold.
Let's be off, then─but watch your footing. The ground is still wet, and like to be slippery.
