I don't understand! Wh-What's this all about!?
Graaagh!
As you can see, this is a fine mess.
When I tried to restrain him, he drew a hidden blade and lashed out. But before I could disarm him, one of my subordinates panicked, and this is the result.
How foolish of me to underestimate the bastard, and to bring an inexperienced recruit. Commander Leveilleur will be most disappointed.
Damn it all! A golden opportunity, wasted!
As for the clients...though we know not how, they slipped past our perimeter. At present, the 1st is currently tracking a party of Duskwight sellswords we suspect may be them.
Would that we could have enlisted the aid of the Immortal Flames or the Brass Blades. Alas, we're here to aid them─they're in no position to aid us.
Well, at the very least, we have secured the weapons. Yet even that accomplishment is lacking, for the information we received indicated a massive shipment, and this is anything but...
I will join the 1st in their hunt for the Duskwight sellswords. If the gods are good, we will catch them before they escape into the Black Shroud.
In the meantime, I ask that you deliver these weapons to Ul'dah in my stead.
Entrust them to the 3rd's Yuyuhase. He will take care of the rest.
Ah, the Warrior of Light, ever-reliable friend to the Crystal Braves. You have my deepest thanks for your assistance in Coerthas. Now, what brings you to us this day?
A gift of weapons from a certain black marketeer, courtesy of Captain Ilberd, you say?
Understood. Once we've cataloged the contents, I'll have them delivered to the Hall of Flames.
This cannot be everything, can it?
Riol stated with confidence that there would be a far greater quantity of weapons.
A blatant falsehood. Clearly, Riol is unfamiliar with the ways of Ul'dahn merchants, who ever strive to present themselves as greater than they are.
We should be thankful that his information was not completely erroneous, and that we managed to achieve anything of worth at all.
It's still something worth celebrating, isn't it, Lieutenant?
Besides, we've got more important things to worry about─like fighting those Garleans up north!
There'll be no fighting if I have anything to say about it. Our orders are to stand watch, not to seek glory in battle.
If you have no further need of us, then I shall take my unit to the Ceruleum Processing Plant.
Time for the 4th to earn their keep, eh? Fight well, Alianne─for the freedom of all!
Excellent work as always, my friend. Rest assured that the Immortal Flames will hear of your contribution. Until we meet again.
Forename. A word, if it please ye.
Not here─look for me at the Sapphire Avenue Exchange. No need for whistlin' this time, don't ye worry.
Thanks for indulgin' me request.
Few places better than a market for privacy, I find. All the hustle an' the bustle o' commerce means most conversations go unnoticed.
I'll get to the point: at the Burnin' Wall, when you an' the captain interrupted the exchange, what happened? Tell me everythin'─leave no detail out.
Hmmm...that's not quite how the 1st told it.
These Duskwights they were chasin'─latest word is that we lost the trail.
But ye never saw 'em yerself? Not before the fightin' started, an' not after?
Somethin' ain't right. I don't know what it is, but I can feel it in me bones.
I'm not daft enough to be misled by some merchant's drunken boasts. Our information was reliable, godsdammit! I know he purchased those weapons!
Hmph. As if I've never deciphered a moneylender's books, or had to follow a transaction back to its source...
Did plenty o' that back when the Braves were gettin' started, believe me. The commander wanted assurances that we weren't takin' gil from the wrong sort o' benefactors.
'Course these days the money flows like water, an' the 1st an' 3rd get the shiniest new toys...
...Forgive me, friend. I've a lot on me mind these days, an' I appreciate ye lendin' an ear. Right, then─best get back to it.
Forename, can you hear me!? This is Tataru!
Your presence is urgently requested at the Rising Stones! Please come and see me as soon as you are able!
Thank you for coming so quickly, Forename!
We've a guest from Ishgard who wishes to speak with you─a most, um...determined lady, by all indications...
Our guest is with the Antecedent in the solar at present.
Let's not keep them waiting any longer. Shall we?
We have a guest from Ishgard who wishes to speak with you.
I believe the two of you have met?
We have. I had hoped to speak with Commander Leveilleur as well, but I cannot afford to wait any longer.
The lord commander sent me hither to request your aid in a matter of grave import.
You see now why I had Tataru summon you.
Now that we are all assembled, perhaps you would be good enough to elaborate on the nature of the matter which brought you to us.
The Observatorium's astrologians have sounded the alarum.
Last night, the dragon star burned with an intensity not seen in fifteen summers.
Not since the Dravanians engaged the Empire in the Battle of Silvertear Skies.
“The northern sky doth burn full bright upon the wyrm lord's call. The red behemoth beckoneth, and flame consumeth all.”
The old Coerthan rhyme, aye.
The brightening of the dragon star is said to accompany the roar of a great wyrm. The astrologians believe that it was Midgardsormr himself who cried out on this occasion.
After an absence of centuries, the king of kings did return to lead his kind against the might of Garlemald...
...Only to fall in his duel with the Agrius, proud flagship of the Garlean fleet. Devoid of life, his corpse remaineth entwined about the magitek monstrosity even unto this day.
Urianger has the right of it. Whatever this alteration in the dragon star portends, the great wyrm has shown no sign of life.
Tataru, have the Domans reported aught out of the ordinary?
Correct me if I'm wrong, but if Midgardsormr had roared, wouldn't we have heard it here in Revenant's Toll?
“Roar” is but a figure of speech. Dravanians can communicate in ways beyond our ken.
It is for this very reason that we are forced to look for signs in the heavens. We cannot say with any confidence that a great wyrm roared at all, much less that it was Midgardsormr.
Only by directly examining the Keeper of the Lake can we be certain. However, it will take too long to gain the Holy See's approval to dispatch the Temple Knights.
Therefore, Ser Aymeric would entrust this task to you. Do you accept?
We knew you would not disappoint us. Now, if you would excuse me, I must return and assist the lord commander. We have precious little time to prepare.
To prepare for what, pray tell?
When a great wyrm roars, his brethren cannot choose but answer. We prepare for battle.
Forgive me if I state aught which you already know, but I would ensure that you understand the nature of your destination.
As Urianger stated, what we now call the Keeper of the Lake is the wreckage of the Agrius, former flagship of the imperial fleet, and the corpse of the wyrm responsible for its destruction.
Fifteen years ago, as the next step in his campaign to subjugate Eorzea, Gaius van Baelsar attempted to seize control of Mor Dhona. So massive was his force that all thought his victory a foregone conclusion...
But an unlikely ally came to Eorzea's aid that day─Midgardsormr, legendary guardian of Silvertear Falls, burst forth from beneath the waters of the lake and led a host of dragons against the Garlean airships overhead.
In what would later become known as the Battle of Silvertear Skies, the great wyrm felled countless airships before engaging the Agrius.
In the ensuing struggle, the flagship's ceruleum engines failed, and it tumbled into the lake below. Yet this victory came at a great cost, for the explosion which followed claimed the life of the great wyrm as well.
That same explosion transformed Silvertear Falls into the desolate wasteland it is today, draining the lake of its waters and crystallizing aether for malms around.
Yet a remnant of the lake remains, and at its center a constant reminder of that fateful day long ago...
In accordance with Ser Aymeric's wishes, our Doman allies have been standing watch over the Keeper of the Lake. It would be wise to speak with them before investigating the wreckage yourself.
Be careful, my friend. We know not what dangers await you within.
Now then, let us not neglect our own tasks! There is much to be done, and precious little time to do it.
