This doesn't require a debate! We have work to do, so quit dragging your feet and get to it!
This doesn't require a debate! We have work to do, so quit dragging your feet and get to it!
This doesn't require a debate! We have work to do, so quit dragging your feet and get to it!
This doesn't require a debate! We have work to do, so quit dragging your feet and get to it!
This doesn't require a debate! We have work to do, so quit dragging your feet and get to it!
This doesn't require a debate! We have work to do, so quit dragging your feet and get to it!
This doesn't require a debate! We have work to do, so quit dragging your feet and get to it!
So, did any of our selections set your mouth to watering?
Ah yes, a fine choice! One of my personal favorites, actually.
Please, dig in! I'm eager to hear what you think.
I hope you enjoy it as much as we do!
I hope you enjoy it as much as we do!
I hope you enjoy it as much as we do!
I hope you enjoy it as much as we do!
I hope you enjoy it as much as we do!
I hope you enjoy it as much as we do!
The carrot met with your approval, yes?
What did you think? Unlike anything you've ever tasted, yes?
The carrot of happiness is full to bursting with nutrients and is guaranteed to leave you feeling satiated. It's a staple among us Loporrits.
The philosopher's carrot improves mental fortitude. Something of a shock at first bite, but it's well worth the enhanced powers of cognition.
The lucky carrot is...well...to be honest we're not quite sure how it was first made. A happy accident, you might say. But as the name suggests, after eating one, you'll feel blessed with good fortune.
The iron carrot can be a bit difficult to digest, but the boost to endurance it promises makes it the perfect meal before a day of heavy lifting.
We have plenty of other varieties, too. Bleeding carrots to improve blood flow, dream carrots to help with sleep...
So you see, we have a carrot for every occasion!
Then why do you seem so disappointed? If they're lacking somehow, we need to know.
You don't like carrots...? Oh, you must mean you don't like them served in this fashion. Worry not─we have puréed versions on hand if you haven't the time to chew.
Sharlayan? What in blazes is that?
I take it you too had a wide assortment of carrots to choose from and naught else?
If I may ask, what exactly did these collaborators share with you about cuisine on Etheirys? Surely you are aware we have an abundance of dishes and foods you could emulate?
Of course we are! But, well...it was only quite recently that we established contact...
Even holding a conversation was a struggle at first, so imagine our surprise when they sent a mountain of books and documents with no clear instructions. The sheer amount of information was overwhelming! If it wasn't for that encyclopedia I found, we would have been at a loss where to begin.
And so we decided, rather than divide our resources to prepare a variety of middling and potentially unsatisfying meals, it would be more efficient to devote our efforts to the production of a single perfect food.
That's all well and good, but man cannot live on raw carrots alone.
Have you considered cooking them?
You mean steaming, boiling, roasting, and the like? I suppose we could prepare the carrots in other ways...
But our primary concern was efficiency, and what's more efficient than sinking your teeth into a carrot fresh from production?
A rather strange approach to take for one named Cookingway, isn't it?
Well, technically speaking, Cookingway isn't my given name. When first created, we were all named in the old tongue─you know, that otherwise impenetrable parlance the watcher speaks?
After we received a great tome of words─a dictionary, that is─from our collaborators, we learned your language. Adverbs, gerunds, present-continuous verb conjugations... Just the basics.
Then, we found the terms related to our given tasks, and used them to form new names. Aren't they helpful?
No, not really. But it does explain a great deal.
Wherefore didst thy kind deem such a change necessary?
When the rest of your people arrive, we want to be certain they understand immediately what each of us does. You'd never be able to pronounce our original names anyway.
I see...
I hope our critiques, such as they are, were helpful to you.
Though if you should decide to preserve flora and fauna from Etheirys as well, you would be able to offer the passengers a more balanced diet.
Until such a day─one I pray comes sooner than later─it would appear there is naught but carrots on the menu.
Hmm...
I hate to admit it, but...I did rather like the carrots.
While I'm sure the Loporrits would hop at the chance to expound upon carrots in exhaustive detail, perhaps it's time we moved on?
Hungry for more carrots? Fear not, you can eat to your heart's content after you've seen the rest of Bestways Burrow.
I think we've had our fill of carrots for now. Let's move on to other necessities, shall we?
Our clothing production is sure to impress. This way!
It's hardly Sunsilk Tapestries, but perhaps we'll be pleasantly surprised.
Do you suppose the clothes they prepared will be as grossly oversized as the carrots?
Garments born of the heavens, crafted with methods ancient and forgotten. Dress befitting we who walk in shade, stewards of the esoteric...
Here we are─the apparel production station.
We've chosen to employ more traditional methods for this task─creation magicks!
Hydaelyn, in Her infinite wisdom, blessed us with the selfsame affinity for magic Her people possessed. We have other amazing talents, of course─and I know you're dying to hear about them─but I will regale you with the details another time.
That said, we did run into a spot of trouble at first. Our magic alone was not sufficient to see our work done.
In the end, we discovered crystallized aether was a wonderful catalyst that could provide us with the extra vis we needed.
My, how resourceful.
Ah, the sweet sound of recognition! You will also be impressed to hear we've read all about your habit of changing attire to match your chosen profession. For the sake of efficiency, I presume? This has also been taken into account with our designs.
But why take my word for it when you can simply try on our clothes?
Make yourselves known to the workers and they will see to the rest!
If you're worried about sizing, don't be. It should be a simple matter to adjust our concepts as required...and it will be required.
