Ho there, adventurer. Curious about the Marauders' Guild, are ye?
Any axe worth swingin' needs two hands on the haft, an' has a blade what can make short work of a galley's mast. That's the kind o' weapon our members train to use with deceptive swiftness an' all too predictable force.
Are ye interested in hearin' more, lass? Then why don't I give ye the short version o' the guild's foundin' history, an' we can go from there.
It all started with ships, ye see. What've ships got to do with axes, ye ask? Well, buildin' 'em would be pretty bloody difficult without a sturdy tool to lop down trees for timber.
An' since only the Navigator Herself knows when a ship'll run afoul of a storm or worse, it makes sense for the crew's carpenter to carry an axe on board. Aye, it all started with shipbuildin' an' ship repair. What? Am I borin' ye?
Hmph. As I was sayin', any tool on a ship can become a weapon, an' the axe was perfect for hookin' yerself over the rail of an enemy vessel, lettin' loose in a whirl o' steel, an' generally layin' waste to all about ye.
As more seafarers took up the axe as their weapon o' choice, so did the bloody art o' the marauder begin to take shape─'specially among pirates, where strength an' skill decided yer place in the world.
With an eye to assemblin' crews o' battle-ready raiders, the pirates started teachin' the proper way to wield a choppin' blade to their new recruits. An' that's how the Marauders' Guild first came to be.
But once the Galadion Accord was signed to unite the Maelstrom an' the pirates against Limsa's enemies, the whole game changed.
The accord itself was a dismal failure, o' course, but the Marauders' Guild was never the same─it was taken over, restructured, an' purged of its pirate elements. It had been reborn as an institution dedicated to naught but the teachin' of axe fightin'.
The members o' this new Marauders' Guild weren't no greed-driven cutthroats, neither─they were warriors what sought to use their martial prowess for the good o' society.
If masterin' the axe is yer heart's desire, then ye'll find no better arena in which to practice yer swings.
Think it over, then let me know if ye fancy joinin' our ranks. I've a feelin' I'll be seein' more o' ye soon, lass.
Ah, there ye are, Forename. Enjoy yer jaunt 'round the city, did ye?
If ye mean to base yerself in Limsa Lominsa, that won't be the last time ye'll visit them three places.
An' now ye've got some idea o' what's where, ye can start explorin' the rest o' the town.
Ye've shown a good ear fer listenin', lass. Stick with ol' Baderon, an' ye'll go far.
Still in Limsa, are ye, Forename? 'Ow'd ye fancy a trip outside the city walls?
I'd like ye to visit an orchard by the name o' Summerford Farms. Ever 'eard o' the place? The owner, Staelwyrn, is an old mate o' mine.
'E's got 'imself a crew o' mostly reformed pirate types, if ye can believe that, and 'as been tryin' to bring a bit o' life back to the fields after the Calamity ruined the soil. 'E mentioned needin' another 'and or two, and yer name sprang to mind.
I gave ye a glowin' recommendation, so make sure ye work 'ard and impress the old bastard. Ye need directions? The place ain't 'ard to find: just take the Zephyr Gate out o' the city, and follow the road northeast.
