It's a sin eater trick! They mean to kill us all!
Perhaps they speak the truth.
...That will seem a lot less amusing when we are forced to kill them.
Oh, for the love of...
I had hoped that by accompanying you, we might come to understand one another, but all I have come to understand is that you have a knack for inflaming the natives.
You've committed the cardinal sin of boring me. And so I retire to the shade.
Good luck.
There! Did you see that one disappear!?
I think I preferred Lahabrea.
Enough. Runar, report.
Master Matoya!
We apprehended them as you ordered, but...are you certain these are sin eaters?
The intense light of the aether I saw was unmistakable. If not sin eaters, then what?
'Tis passing queer that Y'shtola should mistake us for the enemy, is it not?
Mayhap it hath been too long since last she beheld the radiance of thine aether...
Master Matoya. Hath time truly made strangers of us?
Nay. I recognize you, Urianger, Thancred. And this is Minfilia of the First, of whom you spoke before.
Just so. And knowing as thou must that we come in peace, might I prevail upon thee to have thy comrades lower their arms?
First explain this other presence in your company. The one I know not.
There is but one manner of creature in this world whose aether is suffused with such an abundance of light.
Mine apologies, Master Matoya, but thou art mistaken. Before thee standeth our dearest comrade. The truest hero among us.
Though she is but recently arrived here in the First, not one but two Lightwardens have already perished by her most puissant hand.
It... It cannot be!
Master Matoya?
Lower your weapons.
Forgive us this hostile welcome.
Come, I would give you a proper introduction to Rak'tika and its people.
You have been busy since arriving in the First, I gather. But I would hear the tale of your travails in more suitable surroundings.
With Fort Gohn yet to be rebuilt, the Night's Blessed have made their home in a settlement to the northeast. I will await you at its entrance. Follow the path through yonder gate and you will find me soon enough.
There you are. I was beginning to worry. Much like the Twelveswood, this forest has a way of dealing with those who stray too far from the beaten path.
But I digress. Let me show you the home of the Night's Blessed.
Slitherbough is the largest of the Blessed's settlements.
They worship no gods, instead revering Darkness itself.
It is a curious kind of faith, but one which has granted them the strength to persevere in the wake of the Flood.
I hope you weren't expecting a grand feast by way of welcome. They are a simple people.
Now, I would hear of your travels away from prying ears. Come.
I see. And now you seek the Lightwarden of Rak'tika.
In the days after I arrived in the First, I too relied upon the Crystal Exarch for guidance. But his penchant for secrecy and the telling of half-truths soon lost him my trust. And thus did I strike out on my own.
My work eventually led me here to the forest, which I have come to know like the back of my hand.
I cannot say with certainty where your quarry is hiding, but I am confident I can narrow the search.
Well...go on, then.
Some few thousand years ago, this forest stood at the heart of the empire of Ronka.
A great many relics of that civilization can still be found to the east in Yx'Maja.
Or rather, could be found─were the area not fiercely guarded.
Yx'Maja, you see, is home to a tribe of warriors whose lineage is said to date back to the time of the empire. Any attempt to enter their territory is met with lethal force. They offer no warnings, and suffer no trespasser to escape.
Needless to say, my every attempt to survey the area has been thwarted.
Mayhap the Warden hideth there full knowing none may approach it for fear of these protectors.
As for the tablet...
I find the timing of its discovery suspiciously convenient. If I did not know better, I would think someone was trying to curry favor with me.
Regardless, it will take time to decipher these writings. Yet I would not be at all surprised if they somehow held the key to entering Yx'Maja unmolested. The Exarch has a nose for serendipity.
If there is aught I can do to assist thee in unraveling their secrets, thou need'st only ask.
Thank you, Urianger. I may well take you up on that offer.
While we set to work, might I suggest you take a tour of the city?
Should you be in any doubt as to the importance of your role as the “Warrior of Darkness,” the people here will surely cure you of it.
I must say, Y'shtola...while most of us have struggled to come to terms with our altered circumstances, you seem to have adapted rather well.
Lest you forget, Master Matoya and I dedicated our lives to uncovering the truth which hides at the heart of our world.
Though separate, the fate of this reflection is nevertheless bound to that of our home. That I would be daunted by such an invaluable opportunity is absurd.
But what of you, Thancred? Could it be that you are still struggling to “come to terms” with the nature of your young companion?
My “struggles” are none of your concern. Quite why you would speak thus─and in this company─I do not know. Perhaps you left more of yourself back in the Source than I assumed. If you'll excuse me.
He understands that I'm not the same. That I'm not her.
Understands, perhaps, but does not accept. The question being whether he ever will.
And whether you will, more importantly. As difficult as your circumstances may be, they are yours, not his. 'Tis you and you alone who bears ultimate responsibility for your life.
But you need not make any hard choices now. Why not go and get some fresh air─clear your head?
I am not indifferent to Thancred's troubles. Nevertheless, I will not apologize for holding him to a higher standard after all these years. He has ever been a man of considerable resolve, and that is what I will continue to expect.
Though it heartens me to know that some of us remain ourselves in spite of our present circumstances.
I can but imagine how Alisaie and Alphinaud have changed since arriving here in the First.
<sigh> You're right. And after my untoward remarks to Thancred, no doubt he thinks I changed for the worst. I will have to speak with him later.
I realize I am not as I was on the Source, but I cannot say I regret the decisions that allowed me to come this far.
Ahem. Returning to the matter at hand─I really must begin work on deciphering this tablet. In the meantime, perhaps you should take a look about Slitherbough.
If there is anything you need, pray speak with Runar at the plaza.
Welcome, friend. Welcome! My apologies for our less-than-hospitable greeting earlier.
Tell me, what is your name? From where do you hail?
From the Crystarium! I see. And this tablet you've brought may help us find the Lightwarden here in Rak'tika?
Well, you are welcome to stay with us for as long as you need. Come, let me show you around.
Would it be all right if I joined you?
Of course, of course. Anything for the guests of our dear Master Matoya.
Thank you. She means a great deal to the Night's Blessed, doesn't she?
If not for her, we may have all perished in the great fire.
With our priests slain and our home in ruins, we were at the mercy of the sin eaters.
It was she who drove them back. And with her sage guidance, we were able to rebuild.
Before long she became a central figure in our community─a great oak within whose shadow many have come to find solace.
That is not to say there were not those hesitant to grant an outsider such authority, myself included.
Perhaps it is the smile in her eyes when she speaks of the sunless sea. I feel...whole again, now that she is with us, and I have no doubt the others feel the same.
She is as much a part of the Night's Blessed as any of us, and we are grateful for all she does in service to the Dark.
But you did not hear this from me, yes?
Now, you should know there are certain customs we ask guests to adhere to so long as they reside within Slitherbough.
To show reverence to the Dark?
In a word, yes. But fear not, it is not too involved.
Let us begin with something simple. Follow me.
Should you see any of our people come to this chamber, they have likely returned from a journey beyond the borders of Rak'tika.
We use the water stored here to cleanse ourselves of the Light's impurity.
A simple and perhaps peculiar custom, but it is one of our most important.
Would you two kneel for just a moment, that I might rid you of the Light's impurity?
Would you two kneel for just a moment, that I might rid you of the Light's impurity?
And with that, you have been cleansed of the Light's blighted touch. How do you feel?
I'm not sure, to be honest. Not refreshed, exactly, but I do feel different.
Has this water been treated in some way?
Only blessed by our priests. They are practiced in the arcane arts. As such, it is said their prayers imbue the water with a faint dark energy.
A prickling sensation? No one has ever spoken of such a reaction before.
I wouldn't say it was an unpleasant sensation, but I too felt something strange.
Hmmm. The dark aspect of this water should have no discernible effect. Unless...
By the gods! Master Matoya was right─you are sin eaters!
I jest, I jest. What you felt was likely no more than the chill of the water.
Perhaps now would be a good time for you to acquaint yourselves with the people of Slitherbough.
For that, I must teach you a customary greeting.
Allin tuta. In the language of Ronka, it is one of several ways one might say “good evening.”
The world is not as safe as it once was, and this greeting lets us quickly discern friend from foe.
Is there a handshake or gesture we should know too? I would hate to offend anyone.
You need not worry. Merely speak the words “allin tuta,” and they will know you as friends of the Blessed.
I will await your return here. Now go. They are like to be heartened by your knowledge of our ways.
allin tuta
