By the blessed Dark...
Thank goodness you are unharmed.
We would have arrived sooner, but we too had a rather unwelcome visit from the Children.
You are an acquaintance of Master Matoya, then. My apologies.
The Children have been acting strange of late, so I thought to take a closer look. I was careless...
Strange? What have you seen?
At first there seemed to be nothing out of the ordinary─the usual gathering of ingredients for poisons from flora and fauna.
But then I took notice of their venomous spiders. They've been breeding them in much greater numbers.
It's as if they're preparing for something...
Any ideas as to what?
It could be anything, really. If it meant the end of the Blessed, nothing would be too cruel or violent for them.
But perhaps we can use their present preoccupation with spiders to our advantage.
If we were to introduce a threat to the nests where they keep them, the Children would be compelled to save them. Bees, for example, are a natural predator of spiders.
Set them loose on the nests and we would have our opportunity to sneak into their encampment.
What a mischievous plan. I like it. With a bit of smoke we should be able to subdue a few colonies long enough to secure their hives.
Have you anything we might be able to use?
We should have smoke bombs at the outpost just over there.
Then it's settled.
Grab a few smoke bombs from the outpost and search about for beehives.
I imagine the bees won't take too kindly to your visit, but once they're knocked out, take the beehives and bring them back here. Two will suffice, I should think.
The guard returned to Slitherbough, but not before offering his thanks.
As for the beehives, Thancred and I were successful in acquiring what we need. How did you fare?
This is more than enough. The Children are certain to be displeased.
Let us hurry, before the bees begin to stir.
The Children's settlement is to the west, a place they call Woven Oath.
According to the guard, there is an airway apart from the entrance which leads to the spiders' nests.
If the fates are kind, the way will be clear.
Up there is the airway. Do you see it?
A bit far, perhaps, but we should be able to toss the bag through.
Though we should probably loosen the ropes keeping it closed. Enough that it falls open when it lands inside.
May I do the honors?
That should do it. Now we wait...
