I'll say! The nerve...sending that letter, then running off to the gods know where!
Do you have...any idea...how worried we were?
I...I'm sorry. 'Twas remiss of me...not to deliver the news in person.
No, more than that... 'Twas I who...
Our daughter was disillusioned after Master Louisoix left her behind. The day the Scions called upon her was the happiest I'd seen her in years.
She made her every choice of her own free will. No one could've ever forced her to do otherwise.
Don't blame yourself for her death. Celebrate her life. You know that's what she'd want.
If there is one thing we resent you for, it was that we could not be there to mourn her with you...
Reading the words you penned in that shaky hand... We must have cried as much for you as we did for her.
I'm sorry. I truly, truly am...
I knew not what to say. Knew not how to express my feelings...
The poems and platitudes of wiser men. Musings on sadness and loss... Studied and memorized...and meaningless in the moment.
Silly boy... We are all powerless before such grief. Even now, try as I might, the words escape me...
But in our hearts, we know. We always know.
I remember when you were young. How the lads teased you for choosing the company of books over others.
Our Moen didn't take kindly to that. “Be nice to Urianger!” she'd shout, and give them a walloping. No matter how many times we scolded her...
So we offered a suggestion: rather than starting fights, why don't you be the bridge between Urianger and the others? She had to mull it over for a while. Arms crossed, brow furrowed in intense thought...
But from that day on, she never let you be alone. She'd drag you outside to play, pepper you with endless questions, read the same books you read...all to try and understand you that much better.
I'm sure it was annoying and exhausting at the time...but she only ever had the best of intentions.
And look at you now. At the center of the crowd─the reason there even is a crowd, having brought these people together.
You've no idea how proud we are.
To see the boy our daughter trusted and believed in more than anyone...grow into the man she always knew he could be.
I can see her in you, too. Feel her. She walks with you, wheresoever you go. So thank you, Urianger. For being who you are.
I...I think...I can feel her, too...
The truth...of her life. Not sorrow...but hope. And love...
This Moenbryda...she was important to him, wasn't she?
...You could ask the man himself.
Oh no, no. But watching this exchange reminds me how much I've yet to learn about your world...and its people.
You can live here your entire life and hardly learn a thing.
That's why...it's too soon for this to end.
Remind me to invite Urianger for a drink, when we have a moment to breathe. We're long overdue for one.
We can raise a glass to Moenbryda.
I was so busy asking questions about Etheirys that I never thought to ask more about Urianger...
I'd like to, but where would I begin?
Goodness me, I've never felt like there was too little time before! There are so many people to talk to, so many things to learn...
I assure you that my fellow Loporrits are equally excited to have this opportunity. They were humming the whole way here!
We spent so long gazing at this star. Wondering, and hoping... But to be here now, to walk among the people, to be a part of their lives and know that we've made a difference... It's so much more than I ever dreamed.
Oh... You must be one of the Scions, correct?
Thank you for caring for my daughter. The time she spent with you was all too short, but I know she was proud to have you as comrades.
Urianger is too, I'm sure. And I certainly feel better for knowing he has good friends to look after him. See that he comes home from time to time, will you?
The classical Roegadyn language isn't so different from Eorzean. Did you ever wonder why we named our daughter “moon's bride”?
When I first held her, the moon was shining silver and full─the whole world seemed aglow. I knew it had chosen her─that she would be a beacon of that selfsame light.
Of course, we'd later hear our fair share of jokes about how we ought to have gone for “sun” instead, with how bright and stubborn she was. But fiery as my Moenbryda was, she was always kind. Kind and gentle.
Oh, Forename... Be assured that I am fine. I am...
Full glad to see them, too, after so very long. Gladder still that it was in your company. As difficult as it was to accept their kindness, 'twould have been far harder had I faced them alone...
Ahem. Thou hast my gratitude for lending courage to the Loporrits.
Not disposed to rest on their laurels, several of our guests have elected to accompany my countrymen to their stations.
Some few may still come hither seeking counsel, and so shall I remain to aid them as need be. If thou art needed elsewhere, do not let me detain thee.
As a matter of fact, I was hoping you might check on Alisaie. Last I saw, she was struggling to carry an enormous pile of boxes out the west gate...
I could go myself, but we both know whose help she's less like to scorn.
Not to mention that─much to my misfortune─I can think of several other things I ought to be doing. Until later!
Pray assist Mistress Alisaie. She hath taken up too great a burden, like as not.
Livingway and I shall attend to matters here.
