Look who's come crawling.
Traitor!
You can shove yer peace!
Welcome aboard, Admiral. I'll wager you don't remember me. Sicard, actin' captain of the Bloody Executioners, at your service.
'Twas kind of you to invite us. Now, if Captain Hyllfyr has a message for me, I bid you speak it.
We have just the one demand: that you forget this bilge about makin' peace with the beastmen.
Ours is a nation of pirates. Always has been, always will be. Deny us our right to plunder and you deny who we are!
Too bloody right!
Pirates till we die!
What we want, we take!
Piracy has no place in our future.
What'd she say!?
Pirates have no place...?
Our nation has prospered through piracy, 'tis true. Yet it is but one part of our long and storied history.
Centuries ago, our ancestors led a failed rebellion, and were driven from their homes with little more than the shirts on their backs. In fear of their lives, they sailed south, until they came to these shores.
Finding the land occupied by kobolds, however, they were forced to turn to piracy in order to survive. And survive they did.
But not so long ago, when the Empire threatened to crush everything we'd built, we set aside piracy and joined hands with our neighbors. This, too, was in order to survive.
And survive we did. Time after time we fought the Empire, and time after time we won. And through trade with our newfound allies, we prospered more than we ever did through pillaging and plundering!
The Empire teeters on the brink of collapse. Ere long, provinces like Werlyt and Bozja and many others will regain their freedom.
When they do, our matchless fleet will lead the world in a new golden age of commerce. The tides favor us, and the ocean beckons with her vast bounty...
But if we cling to the old ways, this great ship we call Limsa will trade the boundless seas for a lagoon! Shall we scorn the world's wealth for a plundered pittance, then?
Or shall we embrace change and thrive, like our ancestors before us? The choice is yours. But if we are to prosper in the coming age, the whole of Vylbrand must become our ship, and the kobold and Sahagin our crewmates!
Rousin' words. Might even be some truth in 'em. But piratin's all we've ever known, and we ain't about to give it up just 'cause you say so!
Still, we're all Lominsans here, an' no one wants a war. So where does that leave us?
Long before you became Admiral, I heard you was captain of the League o' Lost Bastards. That true?
If so, you'd know how we pirates settle our differences.
A duel.
Very well. As Admiral of Limsa Lominsa, I accept your challenge.
This ain't over! Not till one of us is dead! Finish the job...or I will!
It's the captain!
Captain Hyllfyr!
