Welcome to Blunderville Square─the Gold Saucer's second-roundest square! I am known as the Beankeep, and it is my duty to guide newcome challengers to their premiere show. By that glimmer in your eyes, I take it this is your first visit?
Aha, as I thought! Never fear, however, for I shall explain all. Blunderville is a set of battle royale obstacle courses fit for up to twenty-four challengers─and you, my intrepid friend, look like our very next one!
Challengers are tasked with overcoming three particularly tricksy courses, and must race ahead of the pack if they wish to qualify for further challenges. Whether you fall flat during the first round or find yourself among the final few, you're sure to win rewards aplenty!
Should you bumble and stumble your way to the last round, then you, too, have a chance of claiming the coveted crown!
It can be quite a lot to take in, so I'll leave the finer details for later. In the meantime, have you any pressing questions? Comments? Concerns?
Isn't it just? We have the Beans to thank for that. They inspired us to fill our shows─and our lobby─with the colorful whimsy you see before you.
An excellent question indeed! Our diminutive friends here are known as the Beans. Their curious coloration and delightful charms inspired us to construct this very hall─and our shows, of course─with creative abandon!
Though we know not where they originated from, we but recently discovered these little ones wandering the Gold Saucer. Their round physiques are reminiscent of legumes, so we eventually came to call them the Beans.
Be they voidsent or seedkin or something else entirely, they are adorably inquisitive creatures. You simply must hear them hoot and holler about the halls. I've no idea what they're attempting to say, mind you, but it all sounds quite precious.
On the other hand, you might be surprised to learn that Master Godbert Manderville, proprietor of the Gold Saucer, was the first to attempt communication with the Beans! I'm told they found his hearty laughter and muscular mannerisms most endearing.
It is thanks to his efforts that we found common ground with them, and in turn, they grew comfortable enough to show off their unique proclivities...such as racing through every obstacle that comes their way!
They may be a tad clumsy, but the spirit of competition that lies within them is a force to be reckoned with! Master Manderville was so moved by these displays, he immediately ordered the construction of this whimsical hall, that his new friends might have a place to frolic and play with others.
...Forgive me, was I rambling? Well, in any case, that, my good woman, is how Blunderville came to be!
You're more than welcome to take on our shows by yourself, or with an entire alliance of companions, if you wish!
Once you've made your preparations, simply speak with the registrar. We'll escort you to our next show as soon as every competitor is accounted for!
I believe that covers the basics, but if you've any other burning questions about what you might encounter along the way, I would be pleased to assist you. I wish you luck out there, and may you rise above the rest!
Welcome to Blunderville Square! If you'd like to learn more about our shows, then you've come to the right place.
