The exploits of you and your companions are truly an inspiration to us all. I have never felt more compelled to hone my own skills, that I one day might be able to accomplish such heroic deeds.
Aergmhus means to visit Limsa Lominsa, and I will join him and continue my search. I know not when we will meet again but...please take care of yourself.
'Tis a shame the Scions are disbanding─even if only in name. I still fondly recall the day you granted me my uniform... The memory remains vivid, yet it feels like a lifetime ago.
I considered returning to the Adders' Nest, but since I've come this far, I've decided I ought to continue my journey and venture to Garlemald instead.
I can't hold a candle to the infamous wandering minstrel, but I thought I might share with the Garleans the tale of your epic deeds─extend to them an olive branch of song, if you will.
I still remember the day we sparred together as though it were yesterday... To think how far we have all come since then!
Even now, I have not abandoned my dream of besting you in single combat─of a friendly nature, of course. Though I clearly do not hold a candle to the Warrior of Light at present, I shall continue to train diligently that one day you might consider me an equal!
Far too much blood has been spilt, and far too many lives lost. Still, I am glad I was able to do something to repay those who showed me a path to the future.
Not that our job is over, of course─far from it. There is much that remains to be done before true and lasting peace can be achieved.
To that end, Hoary and I mean to set off for Corvos. We expect that the tensions between the Garleans and Corvosi will only flare more with the Empire's fall.
I am so glad I was able to be here this moment!
You know, I considered continuing to follow in Hoary's footsteps, but I've realized it's time I found my own way in life. Otherwise, I'll never be half the man my brother is.
First things first, I'm going to head to Gridania to visit the Conjurers' Guild and the Archers' Guild. I will do my very best to brush up on my skills before I see you again!
We may have accomplished our goal and put it behind us, but my time with the Scions provided memories that will last me a lifetime.
What bliss... To think I was blessed with the chance to experience such unbridled brotherly love!
Ah, but now that Ocher has decided to set off without his dear brother... Without the two of them together, I fear I might suffer withdrawal!
I'm so glad the danger is past! There was nothing I could do but pray from here, so I was relieved to the point of tears when everyone made it back safely.
I imagine we'll have more free time now, so I was thinking I'd study up on healing magic, that I could make myself more useful in the future.
My first stop will be the Astrologicum in Ishgard to learn about Sharlayan astrology. I must follow Ocher's lead and continue to hone my skills!
There has been naught but chaos since the Telophoroi first appeared. Towers, lunar primals, the Empire, the Final Days... Yet we have weathered it all, and live to see the sun rise on a new day.
And now that peace has returned, I can finally resume my travels with my grandfather. Perhaps we will go first to Kugane, to relax in the Bokaisen Hot Springs. That might be nice.
Of course, my journey will not simply be for pleasure─I will collect information on the territories I travel. Hmm, perhaps I shall visit Nagxia via Doma...
You were but an amateur adventurer when we first met, but look at you now! You've grown into quite the fine young lass─just as I always knew you would.
One might say I ought to settle down in my old age, but seeing you now has set my adventurous spirit ablaze once more. But the first journey I set out upon will be a long-awaited hot springs tour with my dear friend Homei!
