Excuse me, but...you're Wuk Lamat, are you not? I-I hadn't thought to encounter one of the Dawn's Promise here of all places...
Ah, but I should introduce myself. I am Bol Noq', a weaver by trade.
Well met, Bol Noq'. We're on our way to Wachunpelo.
Truly? I've just come from there, as it happens.
I'd asked the Pelupelu who sell me their wool to give me a tour of their alpaca ranch.
The head rancher and I shared a bottle of mezcal while he explained the finer points of wool production.
Mezcal? Is that a local beverage?
It's an Urqopacha specialty. A spirit made from distilled agave heart juice.
Yes, and it must have done wonders for my mood, for I tripled my usual order of alpaca wool. They did offer me a discount, though, so it wasn't a bad deal in the end.
Ah, but listen to me boring you with my tedious stories. I-I will leave you before you are lulled to sleep. Good-bye, and safe travels.
Oh, silly me. I almost forgot to say the thing I actually wanted to say.
Peace for Tural─I agree with your vision, Third Promise. You have my support in your bid for the throne.
I gather from his tale we would be foolish to underestimate Pelupelu merchants...
Yes, they do more than run the markets in Tuliyollal. Pelupelu peddlers can be found everywhere in Tural, traveling from place to place on their sturdy alpacas.
They are effusive and engaging speakers, and many's the customer who's been talked into spending more than they bargained for.
They won't find this customer so easily charmed!
Wachunpelo's down the path off the main road! Don't get lost!
It's right there!
The palace crowds were more supportive of her brothers, but Wuk Lamat's peaceful politics do have their quiet adherents, I see.
I could see more buildings down the path Bol Noq' was taking. I wonder what's over that way...
I feel the change in altitude most keenly. While mayhap not to the same degree as the Sea of Clouds, the air is decidedly thin here.
This is it: Wachunpelo, home of the Pelupelu. Wuk Lamat should have arrived before us...
...That's not good.
