Don't panic, we planned for this! We'll act as decoys while Renda-Rae brings her down. Go, go!
Wait, not yet! There's no need to rush this!
Sod it. Always so headstrong...
Bugger me, my head... I can't...
No... No! Come back here! Finish it, you bloody bastard! Finish me!
I'm so sorry. It's all my fault...
I'll not let it end like this. I promise. I'll kill that godsdamned beast if it's the last thing I do...
Hey, hey! What was that just now? I've had headaches before, but the way you were thrashing about wasn't like anything I've ever felt...
By the gods! And I thought we were lucky just to catch a glimpse of Andreia─but you're also telling me you were granted a vision of her past with this power of yours?
Though...hmm. Two warriors killed while hunting a great horned beast─a beast their surviving companion vows to slay in revenge. I have heard this tale before, I know it...
Bah, it is a common enough sort of tale, I suppose. And regardless, she is gone. Come─let us return to the Crystarium and celebrate your accomplishment!
The table is set! And so I bid you raise a glass with me, that together we might toast your spectacular accomplishment!
<grunt> <crunch> <crunch><snort> <slurp> <grunt>There's really nothing quite like a hearty meal after a job well done. Drink up, my friend, drink up! <belch>
Had your fill? I've another few bottles ready and waiting to be opened. No? Oh, very well, if you insist...
...It occurs to me, my good woman, that I have yet to ask you your name. So quickly did we forge our friendship that I hardly noticed until now!
Forename Surname... Reeq and Forename... Yes, I rather like the sound of that. Reeq and Forename, the daring duo! The brave bounty hunters, the scourge of sin eaters!
Once we have slain Andreia, not a soul in Norvrandt will not know our names. They shall ring out all across the realm!
Ah, but I should dwell overmuch on the victory before the struggle. A wise hunter is prepared and patient. 'Twould be prudent to send double, nay triple the agents afield to seek out promising new leads...
Worried about the budget for our brave endeavor? Well, don't be. I am prepared to fund our activities as needed─no expense shall be spared! None whatsoever!
There she is! Forename, come to rejoin her bosom companion in the great hunt!
It is well that you have, for I have obtained new information concerning a sighting of Andreia on Kholusia. The fiend has transformed yet another deadly mark─a great bear in this instance─into an even deadlier eater.
And so it falls to Reeq and Forename to slay the newborn eater and continue their pursuit of Norvrandt's most notorious Virtue. To Kholusia and to glory!
Let us brook no further delay and commence our search. Separately, as before in Amh Araeng. If you catch the eater first, I grant you leave to kill it without me. I trust you will not be disappointed if the reverse were to occur? Surely not, surely not!
I myself will be most put out if I happen to lose to you a second time, and so, on that note: may the best hunter win!
I myself will be most put out if I happen to lose to you a second time, and so, on that note: may the best hunter win!
I myself will be most put out if I happen to lose to you a second time, and so, on that note: may the best hunter win!
