What's that? Take you down on the lift with me? Sorry, but not a chance. I've been up and down all day, and only now have I finally found a spare moment to rest.
I did see a gleaner fellow heading out the gate there, though. Shouldering a large pack─engaged in some manner of task. Maybe he'll be headed down below after he's done with...whatever it is he's doing.
Please, even talking is an effort. Go and bother that gleaner I told you about...
Quiet. You'll frighten it away.
...Ah, it's you again. I don't mean to be rude, but I'm in the middle of another task. The cloudkin I need to capture is close. Very close.
Hm? You wish to help me with this, too? You spend your time in unusual ways, my friend.
Still, two hunters are generally better than one. Very well.
The canal here is a common gathering spot for birds of all kinds, but the one I'm after today is the hornbill.
Its feathers are green, and its cry a distinctive “caw.” Single it out and shoot it with this sleeping dart.
The effects are short-lived, so I'll lie in wait down by the riverbank to claim our quarry. Be sure to hit the right one!
The effects are short-lived, so I'll lie in wait down by the riverbank to claim our quarry. Be sure to hit the right one!
A fair shot.
Nicely done! Let me truss this one up, and I'll make my way over to you.
There you are. Any new revelations?
So you met with that gleaner again, this time to...capture a hornbill?
I understand catching and bringing in creatures from the outside, but what's the point of chasing after ones already here?
Oh, it's a simple thing, really.
Occasionally, we remove specimens no longer needed for study, or those we've had difficulty raising. But we can't simply turn them loose.
Safely returning such creatures to their native habitats is another facet of a gleaner's duties.
But not in this case, I'm afraid. I've been asked to bring the bird “below.”
The restricted section in the lower levels of Labyrinthos. Open only to a select few researchers handpicked by the Forum.
The projects down there are the subject of rumor and hearsay. Forbidden magicks. Advanced technologies that can never be allowed to fall into outside hands. Even Archons are not privy to the truth.
Those who are─the researchers involved in this secretive work─are not permitted to walk freely in the city, and are instead required to live in isolated quarters.
What could a facility subject to such strict security protocols possibly need with a hornbill? An...an experiment?
Possibly. I wasn't afforded an explanation.
But judging by the requisition list given to me and my colleagues, I doubt it's for any kind of advanced research.
I'd be more inclined to believe we were making preparations to migrate to the south. Meracydia or thereabouts.
What? Why would you say that?
Much of the flora and fauna we were asked to procure could serve as reliable sources of sustenance.
They're comparatively hardy species, too. Able to endure harsh climates. And among them are specimens known to be effective in improving soil quality and purifying water.
When you put it that way, migration does sound like a reasonable assumption.
That's all it is, though─an assumption. Through our tasks, we gleaners glimpse only bits and pieces of the Forum's plans.
Our prime concern is that our requisitions, be they living or otherwise, are properly preserved for the knowledge of future generations.
Now, I really must be going. I regret that I cannot reward you as you deserve.
Perhaps you might reward us after a fashion, then? It is imperative that we reach the lower levels.
And seeing as you are already set to descend with your assigned cargo, mayhap we could accompany you as your...assistants?
I am afraid that won't be possible. Once the animals have been prepared for transport, we send them down separately via the lift.
I will, of course, follow after to make my report, but I can hardly pass you off as porters when there is nothing left to carry.
...Indeed. Pray forget I said anything.
How do you feel about climbing? If you've strength and the courage to brave it, then there is another way down.
This path leads to the thirty-third facet─a mineshaft excavated during one of our expansions of Labyrinthos.
While I cannot guarantee that the passage is safe to traverse, it should provide access to the Medial Circuit below.
I never even knew such a place existed! Thank you, this is the perfect solution.
You're quite welcome, but consider yourselves warned. If the going proves too treacherous, you'd do well to turn back. I bid you good day.
Well, turning back is hardly an option, not when we've come this far. Let's go and take a look at this mineshaft.
The Medial Circuit which Erenville mentioned is the tier directly below us.
Unlike the lowest level of Labyrinthos with its rigid security, one can usually roam the middle layer quite freely. Let us see what we might find.
I never would've noticed this cave on my own! Thank the Scholar that Erenville knew of it...and that you were there to persuade him to share.
I took a quick peek inside, but it's awfully dark in there...
This must be it─the entrance to the mineshaft.
'Tis faint, but I hear something moving within... Creatures homed there by the researchers, you think?
Well, slavering beasts aside, we will need to watch our footing. We should tighten our straps and such before we continue.
Man-made though it may be, this shaft was designed to resemble a natural cave system. Heed Erenville's warning and do step carefully.
Assuming everyone's tightened their straps and checked their gear, then I say we head on in. Given the terrain ahead, though, it might be wise to leave some distance between us─we don't want to be stumbling over each other if it comes to a fight.
Take it slow, and don't forget to check your surroundings from time to time! We can meet up again at the other end of the tunnel.
That mineshaft was infested with mythrilcaps. Some sort of research project, I wonder?
I suppose they are a most unusual creature. Why did they develop such long limbs when all they do is shuffle about narrow tunnels?
Forename! Did you know Krile almost took a tumble back there? She can't possibly still be dizzy from the lift...
I was being careful, I swear! The slope was steeper than I thought, and I lost my footing for a moment, that's all. I'm not injured, if you don't count my pride...
Everyone seems to have made it through without incident. Nothing of consequence, at least. And, as promised, the tunnel has delivered us into the Medial Circuit.
As I recall, this tier is where they keep a wide variety of samples for agricultural production.
If Erenville's assumption holds true─that specimens are being collected in preparation for a great migration─then we should see evidence of such plans in the area's research projects.
Let's follow the path to the nearest farming facility and see what we see...
My memories of this place are a touch hazy, but if we keep to the path heading north, then we should eventually arrive at a farm of some kind...
Aha, now I know where we are─this is Meryall Agronomics.
Labyrinthos is host to a wide variety of vegetation, which allows us to conduct studies on cultivation methods utilized in foreign lands.
And it is this facility which coordinates and oversees those efforts. The “fruits” of their research go to feed their Labyrinthos colleagues, or so I hear.
More notable successes might make it to the Agora. Foods so exotic you'd be hard-pressed to guess their origin, let alone how they might taste.
Indeed! Mystery vegetables without a name, only a list of nutritional benefits scribbled on a card...
Hm... I see no gleaners hereabouts, yet these workers seem to share that same sense of urgency.
'Tis possible they know something of the Forum's plans and their underlying motivations. Worth looking into, wouldn't you say?
See what you can coax from the workers. The rest of us will do the same or cast about for useful clues.
A field full of ripe vegetables being left to rot on the vine. Not a single picker hard at work. Clearly procuring readily available fresh food is not the Forum's priority...
I'm told this cart holds the harvest meant for the larders here. Nothing out of the ordinary...
...And so you've spent years researching these high-yield cultivation techniques?
I took a moment to survey the surrounding area. There are several other facilities nearby we can investigate if we fail to learn aught of value here.
