New to the city, friend? The spinning head and wide eyes give you away.
Welcome. My name is Bragi, and I'm the master of these markets. They gave the district another, official title, but I'm not in the habit of using it. Too florid by half...
In any case, our merchants stock a range of equipment for Mystel such as yourself, so finding something in your size shouldn't be a problem.
Aye? Something wrong?
Hm? Must be a dialect I'm not familiar with.
Let's see if we can straighten this out. See those two in front of us? The shorter one is a Hume.
And the taller one is an elf.
That sturdy individual over there is a Galdjent...
...whilst the one with the horns is a Drahn.
And then you have the large, scaly chaps with long tails and a knack for raising livestock. Those would be the Zun.
...Which is apparently not the name you know them by. Now I'm curious to know which far-flung region you hail from...
Ah, the same as the Exarch, eh? Well, that explains it.
You don't get much further-flung than that. We've had a few of your lot pass through in recent years, and despite their obvious learning, they floundered over the simplest things.
But not to worry! Should you find yourself confused by the local language or customs, I'll be here to answer your questions.
But not to worry! Should you find yourself confused by the local language or customs, I'll be here to answer your questions.
Well, how did you fare? Did my colleagues help you form a clearer picture of this world and its people?
Yes, it seems you were treated to a most thorough introduction. I understand it was something of a chore, but 'twas necessary that you grasp these things before we proceed.
As for the Crystal Tower's origin, you may have noted that details were sparse. The structure is, in fact, the selfsame one you know from the Source, transported to the First in its entirety.
It was my first attempt at breaching the boundaries between worlds─something of a trial run for your eventual crossing. And although I do not know which era I tore it from, I do know that its arrival served to set the wheels of fate in motion.
You've done as I requested, and learned something of the world in which you find yourself. Now it's time I fulfilled my half of the bargain, and explained what has befallen your comrades.
That is a conversation I would rather have in the privacy of my quarters, however. I must go on ahead to the tower and organize a few things, but I shall see that the guard knows to admit you.
Well, yes, of course. It can be opened and closed just like any other. Does that seem strange to you?
I know not how the tower functioned in your time, but I assure you there is no danger of us being locked inside.
...I am not familiar with that name. Is there something I should know?
An extraordinary tale. But I'm afraid I found no such individual residing in the tower when it passed into my care. Mayhap we can revisit that mystery another time. For now, I think it best that we focus on the present.
