Amalj'aa! Amalj'aa! To arms! To arms!
Seven hells... Consider this a warning! Now go─all of you!
Phew... That kind of excitement ain't good for the heart.
You be careful 'round them Brass Blades, lass. Bastards'll have the shirt off your back if they fancy it. Like common bandits, they are, only less honest.
Thank the gods for sendin' some beastmen to the rescue, eh!?
Hey, seein' as we've still got a long ride ahead, you mind keepin' me company till we arrive?
Them young'uns don't much care for conversation, see.
Brendt's the name, an' peddlin's me trade.
An' judgin' by your unusual garments, I'll wager you're one of them new adventurers.
I knew it! Goin' wherever the wind blows, seekin' fortune an' glory─now that's what I call livin'!
So long as you can avoid dyin', I mean. Ain't no secret that adventurin's a risky business─these days especially.
What was it that first attracted you to it?
...Power? As in, er...power to do good? Like protectin' the weak, an' fightin' for what's right, an' all that? Aye, I thought that's what you meant. Well, adventurers do get up to a lot of fightin', that's for sure. You'll never be short of a chance to polish your warcraft in the adventurin' business.
When you arrive in town, you'd best enroll at the Adventurers' Guild─they'll set you on the right path.
An' it wouldn't hurt to join a guild, neither.
Ul'dah's home to a few, so if you fancy learnin' how to fight with a sword, your fists, or even spells, you should think about seekin' one out.
Glory, eh? Well, if you're willin' to take on them tasks as other folk ain't, an adventurer such as yourself can win fame what coin can't buy.
When you arrive in town, you'll want to report to the Adventurers' Guild.
You can find out everythin' you need to know about the adventurin' business in there.
Fortune, eh? Heh heh! Then I reckon you'll fit right in where we're goin'!
Once you've learned to handle yourself in a fight, you'll want to pay a visit to whichever craftin' or gatherin' guild tickles your fancy.
An' there're plenty to choose from, too. Whether it be weavin', alchemy, goldsmithin', or minin' that interests you, Ul'dah's got a place where you can learn your trade.
Adventurin' ain't just about killin' things, after all. A peaceful pastime may well help you make your fortune!
Well, if you ain't inclined to tell, I ain't about to pry. Might be as ol' Brendt's a chatterbox, but he sure as hells ain't no busybody.
We all have a secret or three, don't we? Me? Dozens.
An' I'd rather they stayed secret, too─which is why I don't go stickin' me nose where it ain't welcome.
Just remember, though: there're more important things than fortune an' glory. Such as breathin'. Ain't no profit in bein' dead, an' that's a fact.
By the by, is this your first trip to Ul'dah?
It is!? Well then, let this journeyed itinerant tell you the ins an' outs of your destination.
But of course it ain't! Still, might be as this journeyed itinerant has a few new things to teach you about your destination. Ahem!
Ul'dah's ruled by the sultana in name, but as most folk know, the Syndicate holds all the real power.
Them and their Monetarist cronies would happily get rid of Her Grace altogether, but that won't happen while she still commands the loyalty of the Royalists─an' the Royalists are nothin' if not loyal.
These factions have long fought over power, throwin' the weight of their wealth against each other, an' they show no sign of stoppin'.
'Course the lizardmen─that's the Amalj'aa─couldn't care less about Ul'dahn politics. They have their own interests, see─an' they ain't afraid to use force to serve 'em.
They say war is a gift to peddlers─need breedin' profit─an' though it shames me to say it, I'm inclined to agree...
Ah, at long last.
Behold Ul'dah, jewel of Thanalan, where folk turn sand into gold!
Deep in the sunbaked south, surrounded by the shifting sands of an endless desert, she rises.
A solitary rose amidst the dust and rock. A symbol of defiance. Her name: Ul'dah.
Even with the coming of the Seventh Umbral Era, hope springs eternal for the mongers and merchants who vie for lost fortunes in this bustling oasis.
As the Twin Faces of Nald'thal maintain their vigil over all that has been and shall be, the present proffers a brave soul...
One whose arrival could mark the beginning of a new era of prosperity for the realm.
An' here's where we part ways, lass.
I'm off to the markets to deliver me wares, then it's on to the highroad for me.
Here, I want you to have this─by way of thanks for puttin' up with me prattle.
You never did tell me your name, though. Hey, but here's an idea...
Become the sort of storied personage I can brag about havin' met, an' I'll consider us square.
May the Traders nurture our fortunes as They kindle the flames which burn within us all.
For by fire are we reborn.
