Not I. My oath was to Lord Haldrath, and he alone. If he is not to be king, then I would hang up my shield, as well.
Will you abandon us, too, ser?
I would wash my hands of blood and betrayal and take up an honest trade. Mayhap I shall serve ale instead of sharpened steel...
We four, then...
Fortemps, Haillenarte, Durendaire, and Dzemael...
But four houses to rule all of Ishgard...
...And what of the throne?
We keep it empty. Until the day a king rises once more, we must assume the role of stewards.
We shall shape our nation anew with a history of our own making─and let the truth of this dark day die here, upon the battlefield.
What ails you, friend!? Are you wounded?
You have borne witness to history...to the culmination of the first battle with Nidhogg.
The legend of Ishgard's founding tells that our ancestors were led to the land of Coerthas by the valiant King Thordan.
In the midst of their journey, they came to a wide chasm, where they were set upon by a great wyrm─Nidhogg. A furious battle then ensued, with Thordan leading the van.
Though the brave king was slain defending his people, his son, Haldrath, the first Azure Dragoon, fought on undaunted...
And with a mighty thrust of his lance, he gouged out Nidhogg's eye, forcing the wicked creature into retreat.
Thus did this eldritch orb become a sacred treasure of Ishgard, lending its power to every knight deemed worthy to bear the title of Azure Dragoon.
A rousing tale, is it not? Would that I could still believe it. But your vision, which we must accept as immutable truth, leaves no room for doubt─save on one point.
If Haldrath took both of Nidhogg's eyes, then how came this eye to be lodged in the wyrm's skull?
Beneath every answer we unearth, another question lies buried...
'Twas a fierce battle, but one I knew we would win. Your fame is well deserved, Warrior of Light. Full proud am I to have fought at your side.
I would fain return with all swiftness to Ishgard to inform the lord commander of our triumph...
But we must first have words with Hraesvelgr. There are parts of this tale that the wyrm has kept from us, and I would know wherefore...
Though Nidhogg is fallen, my heart is yet heavy.
...And this stain of corruption pleases me not....When all has been put to rest, I must needs forge my armor anew.
With Nidhogg fallen, none save Hraesvelgr remains to answer our questions. Let us trouble the wyrm again.
And if Iceheart yet lingers at Zenith, all the better. I would have her hear the truth from the dragon's maw.
'Twas you, was it not? The furious screams of the dragons carried far...
You have slain Nidhogg─what more could you desire from this place? Will you not allow Hraesvelgr to mourn the death of his kin in peace!?
Spare us your sanctimonious judgment, ice maiden. We have a gift for the great wyrm...and a mystery that can no longer lie buried.
Lady Iceheart─the Dragonsong War has all but consumed your life and claimed many of your followers. 'Tis time you learned the truth of its beginning─the whole truth─that we may at last bring this bitter conflict to an end.
Sound the horn, Warrior of Light!
Impenitent mortals, ever seeking to bury old wrongs under new.
I did sense the moment of Nidhogg's demise...
You mean the moment I prised your eye from his head?
'Twould seem thou hast uncovered my secret. Aye. Unto the blinded Nidhogg did I yield one half of my strength...
Nidhogg... What hath befallen thee?
We are undone by covetous mortals. They did take Ratatoskr's eyes...and glut their appetites upon her essence...
She is slain, then? What madness hath unmade our peaceful accord!?
Did I not warn thee, brood-brother? They have ever been untrustworthy creatures, these short-lived Elezen.
But thou wert enchanted by thy mortal maid. Thy folly hath cost Ratatoskr her life, and me mine eyes...
Oh, my beloved Shiva... How swiftly are thy kin made bestial by their appetites.
Hraesvelgr. 'Twas thy blindness that did invite disaster into our lands. Surrender thee an eye to me, and let that be thy penance.
Nidhogg...
They bested me once, but I was reckless. I shall need but a single eye to inflict enduring torment upon these traitors and every child of their line!
Yield to me thy strength, brood-brother!
My vengeance is begun!
Thou hast borne witness to a scene from my past.
It was yours... Your strength that sustained Nidhogg all these years...
Would that Haldrath had dealt the wyrm a killing blow...
When my brood-brother did appear before me, bloody and blinded, his life was all but spent. He demanded half my vigor, that he might exact his revenge upon the mortals who had wronged us.
And so you acquiesced! You surrendered your eye to Nidhogg knowing full well the suffering he would inflict!
The peace my beloved so dearly desired had been shattered by her own kin.
Their treachery claimed my brood-sister's life and my brood-brother's reason! Thinkest thou thy fits of indignation will move me to remorse!?
Go, mortals! Take your unruly passions and leave this place... Your presence here spelleth naught but misery.
Were it not for Shiva's soothing embrace, I would slay you where you stand. Woe betide you should the bond we share ever weaken!
Though he lifted not a single claw, 'twould seem that Hraesvelgr wreaked his own manner of vengeance against us...
'Twas my life's goal to slay Nidhogg, but I find there is little joy to be had in its accomplishment.
But you have rid the world of a hate-filled creature, and ended a bloody war in so doing...
I lost my family to Nidhogg's flames. And 'twas with fury in my heart that I took up the lance. Every blow I struck, I struck in the name of vengeance. We were not so different, he and I.
I will not judge you for your deeds─I have not the right. Too many innocents have perished in the name of my “greater good.”
Yet even with all that has passed, the tale is incomplete.
We are short a great wyrm's eye. Of the pair which Haldrath took from Nidhogg, only one is known to us─the one I bear. What, then, became of the other?
Why did Nidhogg, who had taken such pains to prolong the Dragonsong War, suddenly decide to hurl his entire army against the walls of Ishgard?
Lord Commander... Aye, the deed is done. Nidhogg is slain.
What? ...In the city!? A battle with whom!?
At once, Lord Commander. Hold firm till our return.
Fighting has broken out in the city. Lord Aymeric was sparse with the particulars, but it seems some commoners threw open the gates to a force of heretics.
I gave no order to attack!
Are we to mark the end of the Dragonsong War by spilling the blood of our own? Mayhap Hraesvelgr was right about us...
Let us away, Warrior of Light. The people must be saved from themselves.
Wait! I would join you!
There has been enough violence. I will appeal to my people in the city and make them see reason!
Come, then, Lady Iceheart. Let us write the final chapter in this damnable war.
A small army of heretics has invaded the city, Your Eminence.
But there is no cause for concern. A sizable contingent of our soldiers is already in place to repel the Dravanian assault, and the intruders will soon find themselves outnumbered and outmatched.
Our plans proceed apace, then.
Yes, Your Eminence. This unrest shall serve to feed the people's fear of the heretics and the dragons both.
And lend renewed fervor to their prayers for deliverance...
Very good. Grant our guests what time they need to sow a measure of chaos, then order the Temple Knights to crush them.
Your will be done.
The moment is at hand?
Excellent. All shall soon be in alignment.
It is time for the Bringer of Light to die.
There!
Comrades! Sheathe your swords! There is no need for further bloodshed!
My lady!?
She is come!
Hear me, brothers and sisters! The war is ended! Nidhogg is no more!
Aye, it is so! This adventurer and the Azure Dragoon laid the great wyrm low!
The endless cycle of violence between man and dragon was born of our forefathers' treachery.
You have followed me─bled with me─to bring this truth to light, that we might all know peace!
But Nidhogg is dead─Nidhogg is dead, my friends! He who bore such hatred towards Ishgard is dead!
Let his hatred die with him, I say! Let us sheathe our swords and go in peace!
Have we lost!?
No, my friend, far from it! At long last, the peace for which we have so desperately fought is within our grasp! And I for one would not forsake it!
Peace...?
Seize the witch! Let none escape!
Providing aid and succor to the wounded should be our first concern.
If the heretics mean to observe the peace, then it would be folly not to do the same!
That was rather too close for comfort, but 'twould seem that calm is returning to the streets. My mind, however, yet clamors with a thousand questions! You return to Ishgard in the oddest of company, my friend!
That, my friends, was rather too close for comfort. Praise Halone that things did not end in bloodshed. I confess, I was more than a little dismayed to see you in the company of the Lady Iceheart. Whatever is going on, Forename?
Beg pardon...? You traveled to the Churning Mists together? ...Along with Estinien!?
Never was there a more unlikely alliance─nor one so magnificently effective! Nidhogg, dead; the heretics, pacified─Father and Ser Aymeric must know of this!
Let us break the news to them together. I will bring Ser Aymeric to Fortemps Manor.
Hmm...yes, an excellent suggestion.
Very well. Forename and I shall await you there!
Praise Halone, you are safe!
My safety was never in doubt, Father, for I had the Azure Dragoon and the Warrior of Light by my side.
We bring the most wonderful tidings!
The infamous Lady Iceheart, here in Ishgard? This is most unexpected...
She has done much to quell the violence. The inquisition may not approve, but we are glad of her presence.
And with the great wyrm's demise, even our nation's more reactionary elements will have scant grounds to press for her immediate impeachment.
My thoughts exactly.
What of the truth revealed to us by Hraesvelgr? That the origins of the Dragonsong War─a core tenet of Ishgardian faith─are quite unlike those depicted in the scriptures.
...That men and dragons once lived together in harmony, and that it was man's treachery which shattered the peace and plunged our peoples into war.
The same scripture also describes the origins of the High Houses. Were it exposed as false, the legitimacy of our rule would be called into question.
If both highborn and lowborn can trace their ancestry to Thordan and his knights twelve...
But a single sip of dragon's blood is required to confirm their lineage.
If the Holy See knew of this and chose to remain silent, their crimes are grievous indeed. Regardless, this state of affairs cannot be allowed to continue.
Ser Aymeric! You cannot mean to raise this matter with the archbishop!?
Pray consider what you are proposing! If the Holy See chose to conceal the truth for centuries, what reason would they have to reveal it now!?
At best, you will be branded a heretic and clapped in irons!
Then, at least, the archbishop will have shown his true colors. My friends, this war will never truly be at an end until the truth is made known.
You must see what lies on the horizon if it is not. When ruled by fear of a common enemy, we were united.
But now we have none. During the war, the highborn needed men to lead, and the lowborn, men to follow. Not anymore. 'Tis but a matter of time before the old order is called into question.
Lady Iceheart will share the truth with her followers, and the Holy See will be powerless to stop its spread. The disenfranchised will rise up, united, and blood will flow in the streets once more...
A divided Ishgard will not survive.
Tread carefully, Lord Commander...
My lady, is it wise to let him go?
I sympathize with the lord commander's desire for reform, but to approach the archbishop in this manner bespeaks an idealism to which I did not think Ser Aymeric prone.
Though he comports himself as a realist, he has long dreamt of reform. 'Twas that idealism which first drew me to him─that which made me swear an oath to serve.
We must not think of ways to hinder his cause, but rather ways to aid it─even should the Holy See cry heresy.
You cannot mean...
If the lord commander does not return from the Vault at the appointed hour, I mean to go and fetch him.
Have care, my lady─your words border on treason! Should they reach the wrong ears, you would be declared an enemy of Ishgard!
That is a risk I am willing to take. Lest you forget, my lord─I am not born of this land. My loyalty is to the lord commander alone.
But I speak only of what may come to pass. If the rumors regarding his heritage are to be believed, we have naught to fear.
Hmph. Lies and slander.
Forgive me─what rumors are these?
That Ser Aymeric is the archbishop's bastard son.
Senior clergy are not permitted to marry and sire children. But even the holiest among us are not immune to temptation.
I labor to believe it... Ser Aymeric is truly the archbishop's son?
He has never been publicly acknowledged as such, but the rumors have plagued him since childhood.
That he rose to his current position, despite being despised as a bastard, and accused of profiting from his father's influence, bespeaks the quality of his character.
It is my hope that on this occasion, the burden of his birth will work in his favor. Should our worst fears be realized, the archbishop will not be so quick to execute his own flesh and blood, affording us time to mount a rescue.
Bastard or trueborn, he is our nation's best hope. If the Holy See dares to threaten him, I shall lead the charge against the Vault myself.
Hear, hear! The future of Ishgard rests on Ser Aymeric's shoulders! I too will do mine utmost to aid his cause!
Haurchefant, be reasonable...
A knight lives to serve, Father─to aid those in need! The people need Ser Aymeric─more than ever─and we may be his only hope!
There is no greater calling for a knight than to save the life of his fellow man. I swear to you, on the sigil of our house, that I shall do this and make you proud.
Even you? <sigh> Romantic, reckless fools, the lot of you. So be it─make your preparations.
I thank you all for your support.
Though your assistance is most welcome, I fear it will not be enough.
Few as we are, we will struggle to reach the lord commander. If we are to succeed, we must needs recruit others to our cause.
The lord commander has need of us...and we of him. We must act now.
But how are we to carry out this bold endeavor? Even with an army of knights at our backs, a direct assault on the Vault seems unlikely to succeed.
You are correct, Master Alphinaud. Not even the assembled might of House Fortemps and the Temple Knights would be sufficient. With the support of another party, however, we may yet stand a chance.
You speak of one of the other High Houses?
Precisely the opposite. I speak of the revolutionaries rumored to reside in the Brume.
'Twas these disgruntled Ishgardians who opened the gates of our city to the heretics, I believe.
But of course! If their hatred of the Holy See drove them to such deeds, they might well be persuaded to assist in Ser Aymeric's rescue, knowing the truth he would lay bare...
Such is my hope, Master Alphinaud. And I would have you and Forename reach out to them.
As a Temple Knight and sworn servant of the Holy See, any overtures I make are doomed to fail.
But as outsiders, the two of you may receive a warmer welcome.
Very well. We shall seek out the leader of these revolutionaries, and make our case.
My thanks. Estinien─will your brothers heed your command if you order them to stand aside?
The dragoons have no love for politics, my lady. They will gladly watch and wait while the highborn fight amongst themselves.
How very wise. Forename─we should hurry to the Forgotten Knight. Tataru may have knowledge of the revolutionaries.
Forename, Alphinaud! Gods, I've been worried sick! It's so good to see you!
And you, Tataru. How did you manage to escape the chaos in the streets?
Gibrillont and the others barricaded the doors until the heretics left. No one was harmed, thankfully. But what about you two? What came of your journey?
...You're not serious. What was Ser Aymeric thinking!? I mean, the way you two talk about him, I wouldn't have believed... Anyway, I've heard rumors of the people you're looking for, but I doubt they'll be of much use.
The only thing I can say with any certainty is that they're led by someone called “the Mongrel.”
A queer moniker if ever I have heard one─but mayhap it will make the individual in question easier to find. Come, let us all make inquiries below.
