When lightning threatened the world, we Milalla turned to our relic once more. Invoking its power, we opened a portal and returned to our ancient homeland.
When lightning threatened the world, we Milalla turned to our relic once more. Invoking its power, we opened a portal and returned to our ancient homeland.
Remember, you must light the braziers whose statements you believe are true! Are you ready for your answers to be judged?
Very well! Let the judging begin!
Bzzzt! You have chosen poorly!
You are welcome to try again, however. Think carefully on what you have learned, and consider reviewing the panels in the first chamber.
Ding, ding! You have answered correctly! Congratulations!
You have answered correctly─and on your very first attempt besides! Amazing!
Great work, Forename! I knew you could it!
Taken at face value, the information here would suggest that the Milalla had simply migrated from a distant land.
But we know better. We are aware of the existence of shard worlds, umbral calamities, and interdimensional fusion.
For an event that froze the seas, the Fifth Umbral Calamity comes to mind─that which ushered in the Age of Endless Frost.
And legend holds that, during that age, the entire population of the south sea isles vanished overnight.
The art of arcanima, too, traces its roots to the calculations of the south sea islanders. While we cannot outright conclude that these people were the Milallas, there are at least enough points of similarity to support the theory.
Ahem! If you have mused to your satisfaction, let us move to the next chamber. Another quiz awaits!
How many of these quizzes are there...?
Wh-What's with all these massive faces!?
There appear to be a few expressions for these masks.
What could these masks represent, I wonder...
We have come to the most enigmatic location in the museum.
While it is known as the Speakers' Rest, everything else remains a mystery. No one knows what purpose it served─not even the Milalla themselves.
That's rather curious...
Isn't it, though? Some have suggested that this place is purely the creation of the facility's designer─that it didn't actually exist in the Milalla homeland.
It's generally believed, however, that the adornments upon the wall are masks that represent the emotions of men.
And that brings us to the final quiz! The question is simple: how many types of masks are there?
It's the last one already!?
Hmmm... Something tells me it's not going to be as simple as it sounds...
Please take all the time you require. I shall be here when you are ready with the answer.
Masks representing emotions... This is just a thought, but if emotions and memories are intrinsically bound, could they be the Milalla's way of expressing the different faces of Living Memory?
Wait, what...? Gah, I keep on losing track!
I might have to borrow a brush from Krile...
Three. The answer is three...I think.
So, how many kinds of masks are there? Have you determined the answer?
That's incorrect, I'm afraid! Try counting again...or just go with your heart!
That's incorrect, I'm afraid! Try counting again...or just go with your heart!
That's incorrect, I'm afraid! Try counting again...or just go with your heart!
So your answer is four. How about everyone else?
Seriously!? I thought it was six!
Like Forename, I also believe it is four.
As do I!
And the correct answer is...
Four! Congratulations to the three of you!
Damn it! Where the hells did I mess up?
And that concludes the quizzed tour for the Steps of the Speaker!
I thank you for your visit today, and eagerly look forward to your next!
Finished at last... Gods, I'm exhausted...
If the legend is true, the Milalla were refugees from the Source.
But what is this relic of theirs that can bridge worlds? Who made it, and to what end?
Much about the key remains shrouded in mystery.
By augmenting it with electrope, Preservation did succeed in opening a portal. Yet they could never grasp how they had managed to do so, much less the underlying principles of the technology.
To this day, not a single person understands the mechanics of interdimensional fusion. Let alone who imbued the key with its power, when they did so, or why.
But remember this.
The key is a tool. And like all tools, in and of itself it is a force for neither good nor evil.
Once taken in hand, however, its capacity for both is made plain. In delivering one man, it may doom another─making a lie of its bearer's every good intention.
As did Preservation, Queen Sphene seeks to wield the key in the name of those she loves.
And, in so doing, makes her people party to the destruction of countless souls.
We have told you all we can. To be able to share this with you at the last... It feels as though we've fulfilled our purpose.
You've come to shut down the terminal?
...Yes, we have.
But perhaps there's another way? One that doesn't require the terminal's deactivation...
For the longest time, we've sought a means to erase ourselves before our knowledge could be used for ill. And in you we have found it.
So press on. Press on, and don't look back.
I will...
Um... May I ask you one last question?
Of course, my dear.
The earring... Why did you leave it with me?
Because, Krile, we wanted to see you again.
This may seem self-serving...but we wanted to leave a trace of ourselves with you.
A hint to guide you to us, so that we could live in hope.
We've dreamed of this day for so long. But now that it's become reality, we wonder if we deserve to enjoy it.
We wanted naught but the best for you, yet we've always wondered how much you might have suffered in our absence...
Do not torment yourselves so. As fate would have it, you entrusted me to a good man. His name is Galuf, and he raised me as his own.
What's more, I've been blessed with the finest comrades anyone could have.
It's thanks to you that I am here now, hale and happy.
So please, be at peace. Be at peace, Mother, Father.
You already have a beautiful name. But if we might call you by the one we gave you...
Maya, our dearest Maya. We love you more than life itself.
Maya... M-My name...my name is Maya...
Are you sure about this? You can leave the terminal to us, you know.
No─I must do this. Krile Maya Baldesion must press on. Press on, and...
Farewell, Mother!
Farewell, Father!
Farewell.
If I may confide in you, Forename... I've been anxious ever since I chose to accompany you to Tural.
I was afraid of what I might discover. Perhaps I'd learn nothing─or worse, that my parents didn't love me.
But now I know the truth, and I couldn't be happier.
I'm glad I took up pictomancy. And I'm glad I mustered up the courage to say that I wanted to join you.
Thank you, Forename, for trusting me with your life and walking with me all this way.
...Well, that's all I wanted to say! I'll see this through─rather, we'll see this through together.
My apologies for keeping you. Come, let's catch up to the others!
Worry not, I shall be fine.
Lovely people, Robor and Alayla.
Erenville isn't here yet...
The others have told me all. I'm glad Krile could bid her parents a proper farewell.
Now then, to ask this question for the second-to-last time...
Are you ready to shut down the terminal?
You know how to do it?
I do.
Their memories may be gone, but their love will be with me always...
Just one zone remaining...
Now that Elene'shpya has joined us, let's head to the last zone.
...
Are you all right, Krile?
I am. I chose to forge on no matter what.
And I've had the courage to do so because of you all. Thank you, from the bottom of my heart.
Next, we have to part with...
I must say, the closer we get to the end, the faster time seems to pass us by.
Come, let's head to the fourth and final zone. By now you know how to get there, yes?
Yes, we do.
Excellent. This time, I'd like to quickly check on the Meso Terminal, so I'll meet you at the Gate of Remembrance.
Come on, everyone...
So this is it...
Like before, it will be hard, but we must honor Cahciua's wish.
Oh, Erenville...
...
As far as I can tell, we still have some leeway with the Meso Terminal.
Meaning you can carry on getting to know the Endless in the last zone.
Windspath Gardens, it's called, and it's breathtakingly beautiful!
That's where your memories are stored, yes?
That's right. I left it for last so I could guide you for as long as possible. Very thoughtful of me, yes?
Ooh! A great idea just occurred to me!
What might that be?
<chuckle> I'll save it for after we've arrived on the other side. See you there!
Her “great ideas” are generally less than great.
Hey, Erenville?
As much as I want to grant your mother her wish, I also want to respect yours.
When all's said and done, I want you to be happy. I hope you know this.
I know.
I know...
Cahciua isn't only his mother─she's his mentor as well. That can only make it harder for him to say good-bye.
Let's go. For now, we keep doing what we've been doing: seeking out Endless and learning what's dear to them.
What could this great idea of Cahciua's be?
It's not... <sigh>
I have faith in Erenville's inner strength.
Let's not keep Cahciua waiting.
