Well, would you look who it is! Need a ride? I doubt it'll be half as excitin' as the last trip we took─not if I have anythin' to say about it, anyway!
Let's not dawdle, eh? All aboard!
I was stockin' up on supplies over in Vesper Bay, you see, when your sister come up an' begged a favor. Said her brother was havin' some trouble down in Ul'dah, an' likely needed a helpin' hand gettin' away.
Thinkin' them ruins would make a fine hidin' place, I decided to try there first...an' lo an' behold, there you were.
Aye, an' judgin' by them soldiers as were pourin' out of the city, I arrived not a moment too soon...
Must've been fate that we happened to find you there though, eh?
I had thought to look out for Alisaie, but 'twould appear she was the one watching over me. I've made such a mess of things...
An' who might you be, young sir?
Pipin Tarupin, Vice Marshal of the Immortal Flames.
I had been on the Ala Mhigan front these past few moons, but an urgent communication called me back to Ul'dah.
Scarce had my boots touched the cobbles, though, when the streets erupted with cries of assassination. I immediately went in search of answers, and came across Master Alphinaud here. Needless to say, I did not think his imprisonment justified.
The blame plainly lies with the Monetarists. Their greed and corruption are well known to me, but for them to take advantage of the situation with such alacrity...
...Was that “Pipin,” you said? Ain't that the name of General Aldynn's lad?
Yes, I am his son. Adopted, of course. 'Twas only as we were leaving Ul'dah that I learned of Father's fate.
Once I have seen you a safe distance away, I mean to return to the city and extricate him from this madness.
Then you needn't travel no further than Black Brush─our fugitives have a friend waitin' for 'em there.
I dreamed of bringing about Eorzea's salvation, but in the end...
'Twas I who needed saving.
Them soldiers'll keep searchin' for a while yet. Reckon we'll take the carriage back towards Ul'dah an' get the lay of the land─maybe provide a distraction if need be.
You three wait here. Help'll be along shortly. Stay strong, friends─the real fight's to come!
All right, let's go!
How could I have been so blind...
The most unassuming folk can prove to be our greatest allies. That fellow was but a passing merchant, yet he lent us aid without a moment's hesitation─or any hint of concern for his own safety.
Though I can well imagine how a man could feel inspired to risk all in your presence.
Father spoke often of you, Forename, and long have I looked forward to our first meeting. Needless to say...this is not at all how I envisioned it.
Master Alphinaud, you must not give in to despair. That would only play into our enemies' hands! So long as you and Forename are free, we may still set things right.
Forgive me, Marshal Tarupin, but I─
Alphinaud, my boy─sorry to keep you waiting!
Cid? What are you doing here?
Pulling you out of the fire, as usual! Your merchant friend told me everything.
Truly? Then he is no merchant but an angel in peddlers' clothing... But tell us─how do you intend to bear our friends to safety?
I hid the Enterprise but a short distance away. All I need is a destination.
We must find a place beyond the reach of both the Monetarists and the Crystal Braves...
...Coerthas. Ishgard will not suffer the intrusion of foreign forces in their territory.
That settles it. With me, everyone!
Not I, I fear. I must remain here. I dare not abandon Ul'dah to the Monetarists and their cronies.
You may be certain that they will seek to defame you, both here and in the other city-states. But know that I shall do my utmost to thwart their every effort.
Frankly, I do not expect it to be much of a challenge. The smallfolk will not turn so easily on the Warrior of Light and her allies, no matter what the Monetarists claim.
Marshal Tarupin, I...I know not what to say.
Hah! Now that Father would labor to believe! But enough talk─you must go, Master Alphinaud. Your airship awaits!
Up, up! There's no rest for the righteous!
We should make for Camp Dragonhead and speak with Lord Haurchefant. Mayhap...mayhap he will know what to do.
Master Alphinaud told me your tale, Forename. It warms my heart that you should turn to me before all others─and I shall endeavor to deserve your trust.
Alas...the situation here has grown more complicated in your absence. 'Twould be best if I explained in full.
There has been word from the capital. Ishgard has weathered another assault, and 'tis said several wyverns broke through into the city proper.
The Temple Knights succeeded in slaying the beasts, but the intrusion prompted orders to further strengthen the guard and to place the city under a perpetual state of alert.
How keenly we feel the loss of our wards at the Gates of Judgement...
Yet we must not bemoan our misfortune. Ser Aymeric is safely returned from Ul'dah and once more leads the defense of Ishgard.
As for the matter of your asylum, I am afraid no progress will be made until the threat to our nation has diminished.
But do not despair! You are not without allies.
You are more than welcome to shelter here for as long as you wish. Pray think of it as a new headquarters of sorts─the “Falling Snows” or some such!
All frivolity aside, any who come here in search of you will receive no aid from House Fortemps. For once, the Ishgardian reputation for inhospitality shall work in our favor.
Agents of Ul'dah will find their every inquiry dismissed, and their every request for entry rebuffed, until such time as their masters have acknowledged your innocence.
You once fought to preserve the honor of my dear friend─'tis a blessing that I may now repay that debt in kind.
But let us dwell no more on this. Pray join the rest of your companions.
'Tis bitterly cold this day. I suspect there are those who might welcome the warmth your presence brings.
Greetings, madam. Shall I show you inside?
Alphinaud!? Forename!? Is it really you?
I...I'm so happy that...that you are... <sniffle> <sob>
I tried contacting Minfilia and the others, but no one would respond...
And then Crystal Braves─our own people!─turned on us in the marketplace.
F'lhaminn told me to run, and so I did. I ran and I ran until my lungs burned and my feet ached... But I lost my way...and then...
Fortunately, I had observed some of the Braves behaving suspiciously beforehand.
Hm? Ah, yes, my mask─it was lost in the struggle.
Pretty, isn't she!?
Anyway, after Yugiri found me, we traveled to Vesper Bay and met up with Urianger. When we told him what had happened, he used his magicks to weave a glamour around the Waking Sands. From the outside, our old headquarters now looks like an abandoned storehouse!
The transformation didn't take long, either. Apparently, Urianger started making preparations after the imperial attack, just in case the Empire ever chose to pay us another visit. Good thinking, eh!?
Sorry, where was I? Oh yes, so we waited there at the Waking Sands, hoping others would come...but no one else did.
My people are searching for the other Scions even as we speak, but we have met with no success as yet. I had hoped that you might be able to suggest further places to look. Ah, but you should know, the Rising Stones did not share the Waking Sands' good fortune. Only Crystal Braves await you there.
Be that as it may, we yet have cause to hope, do we not? If the two of you escaped, it is not impossible that the others could have done so as well.
You may have been forsaken by men and women believed true, but rest assured that the people of Doma yet stand with you. We welcome this opportunity to repay our debts, and shall continue our efforts to locate the others and see the Scions restored to their rightful place of honor.
'Tis all my doing...
I believed myself the only one who truly understood Eorzea's woes. And look what that arrogance has wrought.
I gave commands, influenced governments with my certainty...
I treated the Crystal Braves, and even the Scions themselves, as pawns in my great scheme to save the realm.
But in my headlong rush unto imagined glory, I paid no heed to the ground upon which I trod!
The salvation of Eorzea... What was it that I hoped to achieve?
Did I believe that I could rid the realm of every danger and difficulty? That I could defeat the Empire and the Ascians, and find homes for every refugee?
Oh yes, I was so very clever. “Become a guardian of Eorzea,” I implored, and sat back to watch my perfect army cleanse the land of chaos.
'Twas all but a means to feed my own vanity.
Only when all is lost do I finally realize the truth.
Oh, Alphinaud...
So, Master Alphinaud, are you content to remain a broken blade? Is there no flame hot enough to reforge you?
What of the fine companions who yet stand at your side? I daresay the fires of their determination will soon have you slicing the air again with your customary wit!
I hardly deserve such friendship. And besides, where are we to go...?
Alphinaud? If I may...?
Should this place not serve our purpose, then...then we shall go to Ishgard!
Minfilia told me many times: as long as we stand fast against despair, the beacon of hope will never be lost to sight.
Be it in the snow or in the clouds, we few will see that the dawn's light shines again!
You are right, Tataru, thank you. And thank you for your kind words, Lord Haurchefant.
'Tis true that Eorzea yet has her guardians.
The Scions have achieved much, and 'twould be remiss of me to discard it all in a fit of self-pity.
Let us then resume our journey, together...one step at a time.
All has been arranged as you desired, my lord.
Nabriales is no more.
The Ardor was not his to invoke. His demise was of his own making.
Nevertheless, it concerns me. They have...extinguished that which should rightly be eternal.
Mayhap he was not wholly mistaken. Greater haste may be warranted.
We are of one mind.
The northern lands, then?
The earth is fertile, and the seeds well sown. By my will, they shall reap salvation unlike any the world has known.
By His will.
...By His will.
I have answered thy summons, Emissary. Speak and make thine intent known.
I would speak of fate, Archon. Yours, mine─the fate of this very star.
Heh heh heh. Thou thinkest sanctuary lieth beyond?
Delusion. Despair. Death. Thou shalt find naught else here.
Delusion. Despair. Death. Thou shalt find naught else here.
Delusion. Despair. Death. Thou shalt find naught else here.
The dawn's light will shine again...
So long as we have these specious accusations hanging over us, we will struggle to achieve anything.
You must go to Ishgard, as Tataru proposed. I will return to Ul'dah and set things right.
Pray do not be so hasty, Master Alphinaud.
Lord Haurchefant?
Full well do I understand your desire to clear your names.
But now is not the time for drastic action. You yet have allies upon whom you can rely. There is no need to act alone.
Yes...yes, of course. Pray forgive my impatience.
I bring tidings. Count Edmont has decreed that the three of you be taken in as wards of House Fortemps. Under our patronage, you shall be granted access to the city proper.
Pray consider our manor your new headquarters, from which you may gather information and plan how best to proceed.
Needless to say, should any of your missing allies be found─as I am certain they shall─they will of course be welcome to join you there.
You are more than generous, my friend. On behalf of my fellows, I humbly accept your offer of hospitality.
The count is a good man and just. He will treat you with the kindness and respect that a hero─and dear friend─deserves.
To Ishgard, then─together.
There we shall carry on the Scions' legacy. There we shall begin anew.
Hear, hear!
I must go on ahead and speak with the count. Fear not, however, for everything has been arranged.
The sentries at the Gates of Judgement have been informed of our decision. You need but state your names, and they will allow you to pass.
My manservant shall be waiting for you at the city gates, ready to escort you to our manor, where we shall meet again. Until then!
