...Oi! Y'all right, lass?
You were moanin' in your sleep an' sweatin' buckets besides. Rollin' of the ship got your stomach churnin', has it?
Hmmm... Don't seem like seasickness, now that I look at you. It'll be the aether, then, I reckon.
Some are more sensitive to the stuff than others, see, an' we ain't too far from Vylbrand now, which is chock-full of aetherytes.
No need to fret, though. You'll soon get used to it.
Eurgh. Might as well have been bloomin' seasickness... Ship's leapin' around like a demented chocobo today.
I reckon I might head out on deck─get meself a breath of fresh air.
Limsa Lominsa's still a fair way off, in case you were wonderin'. Seein' as you're awake an' all, how's about you keep me company till we get there?
Them young'uns don't much care for conversation, see.
Anyroad, Brennan's the name, an' peddlin's me trade.
Ah, smell that salty sea breeze!
Now then, lass, judgin' by your unusual garments, I'd say you were one of them new adventurers. Am I warm?
I knew it! Goin' wherever the wind blows, seekin' fortune an' glory─now that's what I call livin'!
So long as you can avoid dyin', I mean. Ain't no secret that adventurin's a risky business─these days especially.
What was it that first attracted you to it?
...Power? As in, er...power to do good? Like protectin' the weak, an' fightin' for what's right, an' all that? Aye, I thought that's what you meant. Well, adventurers do get up to a lot of fightin', that's for sure. You'll never be short of a chance to polish your warcraft in the adventurin' business.
Once we make port, you'd best sign yourself up at the Adventurer's Guild–they'll set you on the right path.
An' it wouldn't hurt to join a guild, neither.
Limsa's home to a few, so if you fancy learnin' how to swing an axe, or even sling a spell, you should think about seekin' one out.
Glory, eh? Well, if you're willin' to take on them tasks as other folk ain't, an adventurer such as yourself can win fame what coin can't buy.
When you arrive in town, you'll want to report to the Adventurers' Guild.
You can find out everythin' you need to know about the adventurin' business in there.
Fortune, eh? Well, it's a dream we've all had at one time or another.
Once you've learned to handle yourself in a fight, you'll want to pay a visit to whichever craftin' or gatherin' guild tickles your fancy.
Limsa Lominsa's renowned for its smitties an' armorers, not to mention its fisherfolk. An' then there's its cooks, of course.
Adventurin' ain't just about killin' things, after all. A peaceful pastime may well help you make your fortune!
Well, if you ain't inclined to tell, I ain't about to pry. Might be as ol' Brennan's a chatterbox, but he sure as hells ain't no busybody.
We all have a secret or three, don't we? Me? Dozens.
An' I'd rather they stayed secret, too—which is why I don't go stickin' me nose where it ain't welcome.
Just remember, though: there're more important things than fortune an' glory. Such as breathin'. Ain't no profit in bein' dead, an' that's a fact.
Uwaaah!
