Who goes there!? How did you find us?
What do you mean I stand out like a sore thumb? Hmph! If the purebloods over at Victors' Spoils hadn't given away our location, you'd never have found us!
Those stuck-up arseholes... Thought they could come waltzing in here demanding ceruleum with nothing to offer in return. Hah! Looks like the boot's on the other foot now the capital's gone to shite!
So they've resorted to sending you to “negotiate”? I know your game, sellsword. If they think we'll give in to intimidation, they've got another think coming!
Stop, please! Consider me intimidated!
Am I dead yet?
There you are!
Just after you left, Licinia asked me to go and catch up with you, in case you needed a hand. Someone must've let slip that I've a little experience in transporting barrels of ceruleum...
So this is Tapper's Den... Well then, after you.
Who are you!? What happened to the guards!?
Eorzeans and rebels here to save the people of Garlemald?
That doesn't make any godsdamned sense! Why in the hells would you pass up this chance to put those imperial bastards to the sword!?
Let me guess. None of you are Garlean? You were brought here from other lands?
Gyr Abania, Yanxia, Bozja, Dalmasca, to name but a few. Some dragged here against our will, others fed bollocks about a better life, all put to work extracting ceruleum.
All given the esteemed title of “aan”─placing us firmly on the bottom rung of the ladder.
But the old hierarchy means nothing in the new Garlemald, says we. About the only thing that's escaped more or less unscathed is Cerulea Ingens. Still sustaining us, even with our paymasters out of the picture.
We hear you're experts in drawing up ceruleum from the bottom of the lake. But how can you do that if it's frozen over?
Ha! Wouldn't you like to know? Trade secrets, I'm afraid.
At any rate, it's not as if ceruleum is used for much these days, what with the city in ruins. We take enough to power our heaters and save the surplus for later. And though it helps stave off the cold, it does sod all about our hunger unless we can trade it away.
Speaking of which, be sure to tell your contingent we've got ceruleum by the barrelful. If they're interested, we'll exchange it for whatever provisions they're willing to spare.
We can certainly ask. But if you're all free to go now, why carry on living here?
Free to go? Go where?
Even if we managed to get back to our homelands, there'd be nothing left for us, thanks to the Empire. And the knowledge and skills we acquired working here would be practically useless outside of Garlemald.
So we're staying for the time being. Long as there's a need for ceruleum, we'll find a way to get by, even if Garlemald as we knew it is gone for good.
Gone for good...
If you're wondering why we'd post guards outside, it's because we've had trouble with other refugees, and I don't mean the ones at Victors' Spoils. Some of them come bearing weapons, and won't take no for an answer.
As for the two guards you met on the way in, I'll tell them what we've discussed─once they've recovered from the beating you gave them. Come to think of it, maybe we should ask your contingent to send some bandages and healing balm...
Regardless of what the Ilsabard contingent does for the people of Garlemald, the Empire itself is already a thing of the past.
For many, that would be a cause for celebration, while for others, their whole way of life will have been turned upside down.
After all the atrocities committed in the Empire's name, perhaps it is for the best that it is consigned to history. But what of the ordinary people, their lives, their stories? Should they be forgotten too?
Hmm... I suppose there'll be plenty of time to ponder that later. For now, let's see about getting some ceruleum.
The fire we built at Victors' Spoils won't last forever, and it's too dangerous for Licinia and the others to search for more kindling. If we can get them some ceruleum, that'll be one less thing for them to worry about...for a time, at least.
So, you've come seeking ceruleum, have you?
What!? Those purebloods up at Victors' Spoils sent you?
To turn to their enemies for help...they must be more desperate than I'd thought. Then again, Licinia's got her little sister to think about...
A sister? But we only saw Licinia and three men.
It's possible she died from whatever was ailing her. If she needed treatment, I doubt there'd be any way to get it around here.
I may have refused Licinia at first─thinking she'd come back with something to exchange─but I can spare them a bottle's worth of ceruleum.
Consider it a reward for introducing me to the rest of your contingent. Be sure to send them our way, you hear?
I can't for the life of me think why Licinia would keep her sister a secret from us, but we can ask about that after we've delivered this ceruleum. Come on, let's hurry back!
I don't know the details, but she mentioned a sister three years her junior who's in poor health. That being the case, I thought her people would be willing to cough up some supplies in exchange for ceruleum...but maybe they didn't have anything after all.
This isn't right. It's too quiet...
I would've thought Alphinaud would still be treating them by the fire...but they're nowhere to be seen.
I'll look inside the house, while you search outside. They can't have gone far!
Ungh... Damn it... Damn it all!
They asked me...asked me to help carry supplies...but when I followed them back here...they attacked me.
Caught me off guard... Forced me...to defend myself. I fear they fared rather worse than me...
You can't fool us. We know...we know what you're about!
Vultures, that's what you are! Waiting in the wings for us to show weakness, then in you swoop!
Here to help? What rot! All a ploy...to make us lower our guard...
Let you in...put ourselves at your mercy... Put us in chains, steal our lands...get your revenge...
You're wrong... That's not what any of us want.
Save the arguments for later, we've got bigger problems!
I found empty medicine bottles and a bed that was still warm.
It's true─ Licinia was hiding her sick sister inside the house!
But now...there's no sign of either of them.
Where are they? Where did they go!?
Away from you and yours. And if you think I'll tell you, you're a fool. I'd never give up my people!
We're trying to help them, you idiot!
Her sister's ill─the empty bottles prove it. So the medicine ran out, or she put it in her pockets to make it easier to carry...
...or to avoid the sound of clinking glass.
There are beasts everywhere─ How could you let them go alone!?
To protect them from you!
You invade our homeland...taint it with the same sorcery used to slay our countrymen... A Garlean should sooner die than suffer the insult!
Better for them to flee...keep their purity intact...than be corrupted by your vile magicks!
We were waiting...waiting for a chance to free them...since the moment you arrived...
This is getting us nowhere.
I cannot say how Licinia and her sister will react when we find them, but find them we must.
Go on without me, both of you. I first need to tend to my injuries...and theirs. I will join you in the search after.
...All right. Be careful.
We'll do our best to find them quickly.
There's only one path out of here, so that's where we'll start.
Rob us of our lands...rob us of our pride... No, no─I'll not allow it...
Better to die free than live in servitude and shame. The girls...the girls'd say the same...
I will follow as soon as I can. After I've given them some basic treatment, I'll take the men inside the house and use a light sleeping enchantment to help them rest─and ensure that they don't cause any more trouble.
I'm sorry...but this is something I must do.
Two sets of fresh footprints... Young women, judging by the size.
This is definitely them. Come on.
The trail stops at the frozen lake. Perhaps they chose this route so as not to leave footprints.
I can't think of any other reason. Look at this place─it's crawling with beasts, and I can only imagine how hard it must be for her ailing sister to cross the ice.
We could really do with Alphinaud's help, but we can't afford to wait for him. Let's split up and look for clues.
We could really do with Alphinaud's help, but we can't afford to wait for him. Let's split up and look for clues.
We could really do with Alphinaud's help, but we can't afford to wait for him. Let's split up and look for clues.
We could really do with Alphinaud's help, but we can't afford to wait for him. Let's split up and look for clues.
Blood trail... We found one. They were attacked...
No...
Why...why wouldn't they...
Safer to brave the wilds than trust in our magic.
We should've... I should've...
We can't leave them like this. We have to take them home.
What if we're only making it worse?
Maybe we don't belong here. But neither do they. Not out here in the wind and the cold.
I heard the story. About Varis's voice. From beyond the grave...
Of course, I didn't believe it. But Licinia and her sister did. Perhaps there is something to the tale after all.
I want to understand. So I'm going to borrow this for a while. If that's all right.
You had every reason not to trust us. We came as trespassers. Invaders.
But I pray that, in time, we will be more than that to you. That we will find a way to help your loved ones...and see that no more children are left to freeze alone in the snow.
...
There must've been something we could've done... But what?
...Should we have never come here? Would they still be alive if we hadn't?
If only we'd had a chance to talk things over...but it's too late now. Too late by far.
We have already caused enough harm here. Let us return to the camp before we cause any more.
As for those inside the house, we should send someone to take care of them. Someone who isn't us.
All we can do for now is make our report to Lucia...and do everything in our power to prevent further tragedy.
So let us linger here no more. Come...
Would you mind giving Lucia a full report?
We mustn't forget to send some of our allies to Tapper's Den. We still owe them for the bottle of ceruleum.
Treatment of the tempered is proceeding as well as can be expected. If there is anything to report, you will be sure to know, though I gather you have a report of your own to deliver...
Is something the matter? The twins look out of sorts, and you too seem a bit...off.
Forgive me for saying, but the three of you appear rather drained since your return. Is there aught I might do to be of assistance?
Alisaie and Alphinaud tell me they have finished their preliminary search for survivors, but refrained from saying much more than that.
Clearly they are reluctant to provide details. Might I ask for your account?
Thank you for your report.
We shall inform the troops of these developments, and instruct them to proceed with the utmost caution should they encounter any survivors.
Allow me to go and speak with the ones at the Victors' Spoils. They may be more willing to listen to a fellow Garlean and accept our offer of assistance.
I pray you are right. And though I am loath to burden you any further, should there be an appropriate occasion to speak of Licinia and her sister...please do so.
I am sorry to have put you through this.
My distress is nothing compared to their suffering...
So tell me: what else have we learned?
As you may have already heard, we have succeeded in curing the members of the Populares Maxima identified.
They have provided us with some intriguing insights into the current state of Garlemald.
The assassination of Emperor Varis was the catalyst for the civil war. Nerva declared his claim to the throne, and his opponents refused to recognize it.
Fighting broke out in the capital, where Nerva's IIIrd Legion clashed with the Ist, who remained loyal to Varis even after his death.
Of course, even imperial warmongers would balk at the idea of turning their shining city into a battleground. Like burning down the wood to spite the wasps. Neither side would be so mad.
Unless something or someone inflamed their animosity to such an extent that they could not help but act against their better judgment.
It brings to mind events at the Ghimlyt Dark, does it not? The Emperor's sudden withdrawal from the front lines, specifically.
Nerva and his father, Titus─Varis's then political rival─took advantage of rumors that Crown Prince Zenos had been possessed by a demon.
Elidibus. What better way to disparage your enemies than with the truth─or a close enough approximation.
Indeed. But before their accusations could be substantiated, many of Titus's followers were silenced.
While some were merely stripped of their status, others died under curious circumstances. One after another, suddenly and suspiciously.
Again, Elidibus. Like as not, he had a hand in it. No evidence was found to implicate Varis, certainly.
Nevertheless, Titus, Nerva, and the IIIrd Legion would have judged it a brazen attempt by the Emperor to rid himself of his political enemies.
And then, in the midst of this growing turmoil, Varis zos Galvus is murdered...
And Garlemald's own prodigal son, Gaius van Baelsar, is named the murderer.
Shortly thereafter, Nerva claims the right of succession, and in response, the Ist Legion claims the assassination was part of a coup d'état orchestrated by Titus and Nerva.
So no one is at fault and everyone else is to blame.
I should add that both parties received substantial financial backing─presumably to provide them with the means and encouragement to pursue a swift victory─and that these contributions came from the selfsame benefactor.
I'd heard House Brutus had been filling the IIIrd Legion's coffers, but the Ist as well?
It would seem so. Though the Populares determined that the Ist Legion received funds from a variety of organizations, all had connections to House Brutus.
So Fandaniel, in the guise of Asahi, was playing both sides against each other the entire time!
The information we gained from my friends does not end there. One night shortly after fighting broke out, the capital was shaken by an immense tremor.
From that point onward, they have no memories─no recollection of any events, including our clash on the Magna Glacies.
But when asked about the imperial palace and its bizarre transformation, they somehow recall Emperor Varis giving them orders. In their dreams.
“May the Tower of Babil stand as testament to the glory of Garlemald!”
This sounds awfully familiar...
We have something to show you all.
Varis spoke to them through this radio...? Perhaps it was a recording, but if not, that would be...inexplicable.
We are of one mind, then.
The aether that permeates the ore used in this device is almost identical to that of the talismans.
I see it... While it is likely more by coincidence than design, these devices might also ward against a primal's influence.
A picture is beginning to form. If the tremor felt throughout Garlemald was a wave of aether emitted by a primal...
...Then while those within range would have been tempered, those huddled around a radio─desperate for news concerning the civil war─would have been spared.
No wonder Licinia kept it close...
My friends! I must speak with you!
A young man was caught trying to steal our supplies. He is a soldier of the ironmen, we think, but one who has not been made thrall.
Thankfully, Magnai restrained him before blood was spilled. The stranger is outside, if you wish to ask him questions.
I think we do.
Who do we have here?
