Step right through, ribbit, and I will guide you safely to the Kilnfire Cauldron.
Good heavens, is the magma rainbow-colored? Spectacular!
Ungh, the aether here is so vivid, I can scarcely see...
Off we go, ribbit. Please try not to fall behind.
The product of dissolved crystals, lest you wonder.
What the ribbit!?
A little magma can't stop us, ribbit!
R-Ribbit! It's that big brute again!
Ugh, honestly! Smite this fiend once and for all, ribbit!
What a fiery battle that was, and I don't mean the magma! Your destination awaits!
Such an aether-rich heat source will be perfect for porxie-making.
And now the kiln should be lit!
That takes care of the kiln, ribbit!
Aye, let us return to Master Matoya.
All right, it's time to bake ourselves a porxie!
Right then! Let's get this over with!
Newborns are wont to be difficult! Show her who's in charge!
A pugnacious specimen...just like its creator.
Don't show any fear–they can smell it!
Regal raiment? Really?
Garb aside, I suspect the creature will be anything but regal.
All right, let's see how well you handle the big girl.
It's about to get turbulent in here! Take care you don't get sucked in!
She's hidden herself! Find her quickly, or you'll be in for a world of pain!
Quite a fight she put up...
Have we finished, then...?
She's twitching... Is that normal?
I never knew familiar-creation could be so rough...
Nothing quite like a kiln-fresh familiar.
There we are. Quite tame.
Then all that remains is for me to imbue her with the magick. My friends, I'm afraid I must trouble you for your aether once more.
That should suffice...
Good. Let's set her to work then, shall we? I want to see some porxies. Assuming, that is, someone can spare the requisite energy?
A mere drop in the ocean for the great sorceress Matoya, I daresay.
Excellent. Our very own litter of Angelos.
And we can make as many more as we want simply by providing the mother porxie with additional aether.
I will require a moment before I try again.
It's still hard work, but a damn sight more efficient than making them one by one. Thank you, Master Matoya. Everyone. We're a step closer to our goal.
Distributed amongst the allied nations, they should do much to facilitate closer dialogue with the beast tribes. And given their present travails, I believe our friends in Limsa Lominsa should be the first beneficiaries.
Agreed. Though I must leave this errand to you. I doubt my legs will carry me out of the cave, much less to Vylbrand.
Thank you for taking the lead in gathering the ingredients. I expect you would benefit from a rest too.
In addition to the porxies, I trust you've gained an inkling of how much effort goes into the creation of familiars. Or mayhap you attribute your struggles to old age?
If I said yes, would it persuade you to treat me like an adult?
Hmph! Not with that pertness, it wouldn't. Anyway, assuming you have no other favors to ask, I shall be leaving.
Lest you wonder, Master Matoya has returned to her cave with Y'shtola. Hm hm! They are as peas in a pod, are they not?
Well then, my friends, let us return to Limsa Lominsa and deliver the good news to the Admiral. A word to the officer in Bulwark Hall should be sufficient to secure us an audience.
Why, Forename, ever a welcome sight.
...Tidings for the Admiral, you say? She is presently receiving guests, but for the Scions, I know she will make an exception. Follow me.
My friends... What brings you here this day?
Is this true!?
By the Navigator... A cure for tempering.
As often as I've been in awe of you Scions, I would not have thought it possible...
And yet it is, Admiral. We have done it. Here in Limsa. And production of more familiars has already begun.
You have my thanks. Truly. This will do much to advance the cause of peace. Yet I fear it will take more to close the rift 'twixt man and beastman.
Bah, even to speak thus divides us.
<sigh> Welcome as it is, a cure will not guarantee reconciliation between our peoples. For though summoning and the tempered may serve to fuel the conflict, they are but symptoms of it.
If we are to resolve the primal problem once and for all, we must address the cause. We must strive for mutual understanding and find a way to leave our bloody past behind.
...'Twas I who moved that the Alliance renew its push for peace.
Since our ancestors came to these shores some seven centuries past, we Lominsans have been at odds with those who share our island home.
Save for a brief moment of cooperation with the kobolds, our history has been one of nigh-constant territorial squabbling.
Meanwhile, our struggle with the Sahagin for control over the seas has only grown fiercer. A matter made worse by the thrice-damned Calamity driving them to seek new spawning grounds...
With survival at stake, each had no choice but to fight. And so I dismissed peace as impossible.
“Impossible is a word coined by the weak,” I proclaimed to all who'd listen─and then gave up. You and yours put me to shame.
Since you led us to victory against the Black Wolf, you have achieved the impossible again and again and again.
And I thought it high time that I followed suit. Hence my proposal to the Alliance council.
But no sooner did I reach out to our neighbors in Vylbrand than my own people sought to thwart me.
You speak of the pirates who failed to attend the meeting.
Aye. Acting through a friendly faction among the kobolds, we had intended to seek an audience with a prominent patriarch.
But the Bloody Executioners would not hear of it, and their absence sent a message to the rest.
Though they are but one of the three pirate powers, they are the greatest, and any attempt at peace would founder without them.
I am given to understand that their leader, Captain Hyllfyr, has been bedridden for some while with an ailment of the lungs.
Correct. In his absence, his right hand leads, a man named Sicard but recently risen to prominence among their ranks.
Save for his disdain for authority, little is known about him. We have invited him to speak with us more than once, but he will not come.
I have tasked the Yellowjackets and the rogues with uncovering his motives, but they have learned naught of any value.
We have a nose for the truth. Whatever this Sicard wants, we'll find out.
We have a nose for the truth. Whatever this Sicard wants, I'm sure we could find out.
Truly? I would be much obliged.
I shall look forward to hearing what you learn, then. Good luck.
By way of a first step, I suggest we split up and make inquiries around town. Someone must know this Sicard.
If you could approach the pirates, Forename, the rest of us will seek out merchants and adventurers.
Curious about Sicard, are you? As am I, my friend, as am I.
Sadly, I know nothing of the man─save that the Bloody Executioners experienced a marked improvement in their fortunes after his promotion.
Quite how he achieved this is a matter of some debate.
As you know, the thalassocracy permits us to attack only Garlean vessels, yet these have all but vanished from the seas since the Empire turned in upon itself.
In order to adapt, we Krakens have taken to trading with the East, but the Executioners are less...forward looking. I cannot imagine they would willingly abandon the old ways.
So how, then, are they lining their coffers? ...Whatever their secret, they are not like to share it with their rivals, but mayhap you will have more luck.
Eh? Ye want to know about Sicard? 'E's a wily bugger is what 'e is.
Found some clever way to make coin, they say, an' traded it fer Moenskaet's place at ol' Hyllfyr's side.
There was a time we raced the Executioners fer our pick of the Empire's fleet, but the Garleans are gone, an' them days with 'em.
Owin' to which, we've all of us had to look fer other ways to make ends meet─with that jumped-up bilge rat Sicard landin' the juiciest, whatever it may be.
Not that we Sirens are strugglin', mind... We do well enough guardin' fishin' boats from the fishbacks an' other beasties.
Get the first pick o' the produce fer our trouble, see. Quality stuff at a bargain price.
This we pass to our sisters as can't sail on account o' gettin' old or wounded or with child, an' they cook it up an' sell it for a pretty profit. Simple!
Oh, I miss the old ways, don't get me wrong. But when I see the girls with their little ones, I think to meself: a life o' peace an' quiet ain't all bad.
I see everyone has returned. Now, who would like to go first?
So, just as their imperial prey began to disappear, Sicard turned the Executioners' fortunes around with a mysterious new source of income...
Whatever it is, it's nothing to scoff at. According to a tavern keeper I spoke to, the crew have been indulging themselves as never before. But no amount of drink seems to loosen their tongues as to how they are coming by their coin.
For my part, I spoke with a reporter from the Harbor Herald. The publication has been investigating the secret of the Executioners' good fortune, and making little headway.
Plainly, the Executioners do not wish the nature of their business to be made public.
...And I think I may know why. In the course of making inquiries on Hawkers' Alley, an interesting fact came to light. Just as the Executioners began to enjoy better fortunes, the price of crystal went into sharp decline─a sudden fall in demand, I was told.
Curious, I contacted Hoary Boulder, who has been watching the movements of the beast tribes. And my suspicions were proven correct.
Despite ever-worsening relations between the beast tribes and the thalassocracy, neither Titan nor Leviathan have made an appearance of late, suggesting that the kobolds and Sahagin lack the means with which to summon them.
Do you mean to say the Executioners are divesting them of their crystals?
All indications point to that conclusion, yes─though we have no hard evidence as yet. We must investigate further.
Agreed. So how do we proceed?
Oh, I have an idea about that. In fact, I have already taken the liberty of making certain provisions.
During my inquiries, a disgruntled merchant informed me that a wholesaler of crystals had recently arrived in Limsa Lominsa, offering wares at prices far undercutting the competition.
After asking around, I was able to gain an introduction, and will shortly pose as a potential buyer, in a bid to establish the crystals' provenance.
The man is due to be at Oschon's Embrace in lower La Noscea shortly. I suggest we make our way there at once.
That appears to be our merchant. Wish me luck...
Wait. If he truly is in league with the Bloody Executioners, he will surely be wary of those allied to the Admiral─the Scions not least of all.
Compared to yours and Forename's, mine is an unfamiliar face. Let me play the role of buyer.
G'raha is right. And even if you aren't recognized on sight, you look too genteel to be mixing with society's underbelly.
Genteel...? But very well. I leave it you, G'raha.
Got business with me, catboy?
I─ Ahem. You're the crystal wholesaler?
That I am. But you're no merchant. So what do you want the crystals for?
Um... I, er...
(Don't look at us, you idiot! You'll give yourself away!)
Ohhh, I see. You're a weaponsmith, am I right? And you need crystals to make staffs like that fine specimen you've got there.
Th-That's right! I am indeed a weaponsmith, and I use naught but the finest materials. I bid you show me your wares.
Well, we don't invite just anybody into our storehouses. Takes time to establish trust, you understand.
Look, I have a large and urgent commission. If the quality is satisfactory, I will not quibble over the price.
...All right. It's plain that's no ordinary crystal adornin' your staff. So I'll make an exception. Come with me.
It...seems to be working. Let's follow them.
They went into that tunnel. Quietly, now...
You won't find any finer. 'Specially not for the price.
Indeed. I would expect to pay more than double for such quality. How could they possibly be so cheap?
There's nothin' unlawful about 'em, if that's your worry. They're from O'Ghomoro, if you take my meanin'.
Stuff's as pure as it gets─you won't be disappointed. So...how much d'you want?
O'Ghomoro. Taken from the kobolds, just as we suspected.
