Argh, oil everywhere! You shall pay dearly, accursed mortals!
I am undone...but my master's seal is broken!
I wouldn't have guessed it weak to fire.
On account of being bound to a tome, I would assume.
An arcane entity that can summon familiars!
The guardians of the forbidden section are a class apart.
Forbidden tomes can certainly assume many forms...
Master Matoya's tome is at the far end, ribbit.
Yet another guardian...
Did you ever doubt it? Come, let's finish this.
So this is the tome. Excellent.
Let us take it to Master Matoya at once.
I take it you found the tome. Well, let's see it, then.
Aye, this is it all right...
I must say, the experience brought back memories. Just like the old days, you still send people into the thick of danger as if it were nothing more than a mundane errand.
But we were able to accomplish our task thanks to Pero Roggo. He is an eminently capable familiar─a creation worthy of the great Master Matoya─and to simply witness him in action gave me a better understanding of arcane entities.
Should the opportunity present itself, I should very much like to employ this knowledge for the betterment of mankind─create a new variety of Carbuncle, perhaps...
Don't get ahead of yourself, boy. Louisoix's grandson or no, it'll take another decade under me before you can call yourself a scholar, and a deal more than that to make you a scholar worth a damn.
As you may have gathered, Master Matoya is not easily impressed.
...Indeed. Ahem. So, shall we examine the tome?
I had not thought to behold this tome again...
There. It is deciphered. Now your friend should be able to make sense of the contents.
That said, it's one thing to understand the workings of the aetheric converger, and another to actually make it work. You do realize how much aether is required?
Cid is keenly aware of the energy dilemma. His airship is by no means large, and it can only bear a limited quantity of crystals.
If only we had white auracite and the aetheric siphon...
Alas, Minfilia is missing, along with both artifacts. And Moenbryda is gone...
Would that there were another ready wellspring of energy for us to draw upon...
Why did it not occur to us before?
We already have what we need: the Eye!
It has been drawing aether into itself for as long as the great wyrms have lived! It is a veritable wellspring of energy!
Hm, it might just suit our needs. But is this energy something that can be harnessed at will?
I believe so─with the aid of the Azure Dragoon of Ishgard.
Then it is settled. Let us return to the Holy See at once.
Shtola, wait.
When did the light fade from your eyes?
I might have known that it would not escape your notice. It has been this way since I returned from the Lifestream. An aftereffect of the teleportation magick I invoked, most like.
They are called “forbidden spells” for a reason. What were you thinking, girl?
I have no regrets. I but did what was necessary to preserve the light of hope─to keep my promise to Minfilia.
Besides, it afforded me the rare opportunity to wander the aether─a once-in-a-lifetime experience.
I need not tell you that it consumes your very life force to see by sensing the aether around you. Take care of yourself, do you hear me?
I will, Master Matoya. And thank you.
Thanks to your customarily heroic efforts, we now possess the knowledge to build an aetheric ram.
All that remains is to secure its energy source. Let us hasten back to Ishgard and consult Ser Aymeric regarding the Eye.
Ah, you are returned!
Ser Aymeric, I am pleased to see that your recovery proceeds apace. May I introduce Y'shtola, a fellow Scion of the Seventh Dawn and Archon of Sharlayan.
My lord. Pray excuse me for forgoing due pleasantries, but we seek your counsel regarding the aetheric ram. Though we now possess the knowledge to build such a device, we yet lack an appropriate source of energy with which to power it. We believe, however, that Ishgard may possess the solution to our problem.
You need not apologize, my lady. Full eager am I to learn of your progress. Please, tell me of this energy source that you believe we possess.
...And you are certain that the Eye can lend its power to Master Matoya's aetheric converger?
At Estinien's command─yes.
Very well. I shall speak with him.
My thanks, Ser Aymeric.
Nay, my friend, 'tis I who should thank you─as should every Ishgardian. You labor in our name, with nary a care for your own safety.
Let us next speak with Cid. He will doubtless be eager to begin work on the aetheric ram.
Ah, you're back! The preliminary work on the Enterprise is more or less finished. Tell me you found a way to build the aetheric ram!
Greetings, Cid. It has been a while.
This tome contains the fruits of my former master's research on a device known as an aetheric converger. Our ram should operate on the selfsame principle.
Ack, where are my manners? Put a toy like this in my hand, and I go off into my own world... Gods, it's good to see you! And bearing a gift besides─a very distracting one, if I might add! If I didn't know better, I'd think it was my nameday....But there will be time for tearful reunions later. I'll make a start on the tome right away. So long as I have a grasp of the fundamentals, I should be able to knock something together. Which leaves the small matter of the energy source...
We believe we have found a solution to that problem as well.
Pray forgive us our lateness.
The power of the Eye is not to be drawn upon lightly, but I believe we have sufficient cause to do so.
So this is the fabled Eye... By the Twelve...it seethes. 'Tis a wonder such power can be contained, much less controlled...
Boys! Our friends have kindly provided all the ingredients. Let's see if we can't make something out of them!
You heard the chief! We're not resting till the aetheric ram is operational! Not one wink of sleep!
Oh... <mumble> <mumble> ...ing cart chocobo.
Given the danger of the task that lies before us, I think it only right that we take a moment to bid our friends and allies farewell.
Alas, Cid requires my assistance with Master Matoya's rather singular writings. Might I entrust the task of visiting those who will remain behind to you?
So the hour is nigh...
Would that I could join you in the coming battle, but with my wounds, I fear I would only be a burden to you.
In consorting with the Ascians and availing himself of primal powers, my father made himself an enemy of all that is good and right in the world.
Do whatever you must to end his madness. May the Fury watch over you.
This is it, then? Go well, my friend. I shall pray to the Fury for your preservation.
...Hm? Mayhap you think it strange that a daughter of Garlemald should pray? I do not blame you─I used to think it passing strange myself.
But that all changed when I discovered something dearer to me than mine own life. Thereafter, praying seemed the most natural thing in the world.
Prayers are born of heartfelt faith. In manipulating the people's beliefs for his own twisted ends, the archbishop makes a mockery of their very existence. It cannot be borne.
So you're off to face the archbishop, then... Please be careful. And...watch over the others, will you?
We've lost too many friends as it is. Some may yet return to us, but I couldn't bear to lose anyone else. I just couldn't.
I realize it's asking a lot, but you're the strongest person I know, and I don't think there's anything you can't achieve if you put your mind to it.
So please, whatever else happens, keep everyone safe!
Well, if it ain't my old friend Forename. Off to face the archbishop and his cronies, is it?
I'd love to go and give those bastards a good wallopin' myself─that snake Charibert, especially─but I've got to stay here and keep an eye on things.
With the archbishop gone, some of the poor folk might get it in their heads to do somethin' stupid like stormin' the Pillars. But blood won't get us what we want, and I need to be around to remind 'em of that in case they forget.
No need to worry about us, anyway. I'll work with Ser Aymeric to preserve the peace. You just concentrate on settlin' the score with the archbishop, eh?
Mistress Surname, how good of you to pay me a visit.
It feels as if it were only yesterday when first we met here in this chamber. You came to us a fugitive seeking asylum...and now you bear the hopes of our nation upon your shoulders.
He would not have told you, but when Haurchefant begged me to accept you into our household, he described you as “hope incarnate.” At the time, I assumed that he was waxing lyrical, as was his wont. But I have come to see that he simply spoke the truth.
You are hope─a shining beacon that shall guide the people of Ishgard through the raging snowstorm.
...A memento. Were my son here, he would have wished to fight at your side in the battle to come. Take care, my friend, and return to us!
...Count Edmont bequeathed to you Lord Haurchefant's shield? A noble gesture.
We bear the hopes and dreams of full many souls. Let their faith in us be a source of strength and courage as we face our remaining trials.
Work on the Enterprise is nearly complete. Let Y'shtola know to make ready.
Until but recently, the Ishgardians had kept their doors firmly shut to outsiders.
But thanks to you, we have found in them stout allies, with whom we may fight to secure the future of the realm. Truly, you are the beacon of hope towards which all men are drawn.
Spare us the hyperbole. 'Tis not for praise that we fight.
Oh? In light of all we have achieved, I felt it only meet to express my gratitude.
All that we have achieved? Hmph. Spoken like a true outsider. Until the war is over, we have achieved nothing.
The coming battle is a chance to excise the root of this conflict, and by my hand, it shall be done. Then you may speak of achievement.
'Twas not mine intent to make light of your struggle. If I have given offense, then I apologize. But if I may speak freely, you would do well to be wary of the Eye. Even now, it burns with insatiable hatred, watching unblinking for a sign of weakness. Should you falter for so much as a moment, it will surely consume you.
Save your concern. I will consume the Eye ere I let it consume me.
Twelve be praised, thou hast not yet set forth!
'Cross sand and snow have I journeyed, that I might deliver this gift unto thee.
White auracite... But whence did it come?
To mine amazement, it lay hid amongst Moenbryda's last effects. 'Twas but blind chance, or providence, that I did hap to spy it. Let no man claim that my late friend e'er erred for lack of foresight.
In the place whither thou goest, servants of Darkness do lie in wait. Pray give unto me thy pledge that thou wilt strike them down and avenge our fallen comrade.
Let us go, Forename! Azys Lla awaits!
Ah, excellent timing! We've just finished our work on the Enterprise. She's so much improved, I've decided to give her a new name to suit:
The Enterprise Excelsior! Or simply the Excelsior, if pressed for time.
Once again, she'll carry Eorzea's protectors into battle!
All aboard!
I can do no more than see you off with prayers for your safety and success.
Yet know that wheresoever you may go, my son's spirit goes with you. May the Fury grant you strength!
Return to us─all of you!
Enterprise Excelsior...engage!
This is it! Get ready!
Eye of mine enemy! Render unto me thy power!
Ugh... No... You will not claim me! I am the master!
We're through!
Chief! We've got an imperial battleship on our tail! And it's bleedin' massive!
Damn it! The bastards were waiting for us to open the door for them!
I'm going to try to shake them! Hang on to something!
Uwaaaaaah! We're all going to die! Tataruuu!
She won't take much more of this!
The time is come to use Hydaelyn's gift.
Much blood has been spilled in my name. And for what? For a false cause that I created for want of the warmth of companionship.
Saint Shiva...Hraesvelgr... Pray forgive this fool.
But even now, I cannot let go of my dream─my dream of a tomorrow in which no child need freeze alone in the snow.
Thank you, Hraesvelgr.
Is that...Ysayle? What does she mean to do!?
O goddess born of mine own hopes and dreams. For the last time, I beseech you!
Fill this vessel with your light! Still the hatred within our hearts and bless us with eternal grace!
Farewell, Warrior of Light. And thank you—for showing me the way.
NOOOOOO!
This aether... It was a Crystal of Light.
She, too, was one of Hydaelyn's chosen...
Fare you well, my lady.
Whew... I don't know about you, but I'm glad to be back on solid ground─even if said ground is floating in the sky.
When that imperial battleship appeared, I honestly thought we were finished. And we would have been, had your friend not arrived when she did.
Twelve grant her mercy...Brief though our time together was, Ysayle was a true friend─a gentle soul who fought for her beliefs. She...she would have made a fine Scion.
What is a Scion but one who fights for our cause? Our hopes survive thanks to her sacrifice. Let that be enough.
Yet I cannot help but wonder: how came she to know of our presence here?
From Hraesvelgr, I would wager. He will have felt my channeling of the Eye's power.
It would seem they were able to make peace with one another in the end.
She gave her life because she believed in us. We owe it to her to see our mission through.
See that dome-like structure further in? Let's make our way there.
The isle's sentinels don't seem to frequent this area. We should be safe here.
Let's talk strategy, shall we?
First of all, in the interests of efficiency, I suggest we make this place our base camp. We can coordinate the search for the archbishop from here.
I have no objections. Now that we stand upon Azys Lla, I am struck by the vastness of the isle. We must needs be methodical if we are to find our quarry.
Good. Now, unless I'm mistaken, this used to be an airship landing, and a major one at that. From what I know of Allagan design, there should be a terminal nearby that's linked to the isle's operational heart.
If we can find such a terminal, we should be able to learn something of the archbishop's whereabouts. Let's split up and look for it.
The Empire borrowed most of its technology from Allagan relics. If we can find the terminal, I reckon we can operate it.
What ungodly vessels must the Allagans have built to warrant so vast a landing?
Machines are beyond my ken─I shall leave it to the others to find this “terminal.” Of more concern to me are the dragons that I sense nearby.
...Nothing? Damn it. There's just this terminal, then, but it doesn't respond to anything I do. Any bright ideas, Wedge?
...Wedge? He was here just a moment ago. Oh, don't tell me he's wandered off...
I'm sorry, Forename, but could you help me search for him? Absent-minded as he is, I worry that he's strayed beyond the landing area, and made friends with the local sentinels.
Owww...
Wedge! Are you all right!?
I-I'm fine, Chief. I just tripped, that's all.
Fool of a Lalafell! What were you thinking, coming here on your own!? Death by overwork is one thing─death by stupidity quite another!
I'm sorry, Chief... B-But I think I've found something!
What is this? The wreck of a sentinel?
This is no wreck, Chief! She's still operational!
See?
