What rank amateur bottled this wine? The impurities have rendered it nigh undrinkable. Dismissal is too good for the man responsible─he should be made to drink every drop of his polluted swill!
What is it? I am in the middle of an important discussion, and I do not care for interruptions.Hm? That neophyte vintner bid you speak with me? Hah!
  			 Neither you nor your friend has the palate to appreciate the subtle qualities of my private stock.
 I would sooner serve you goobbue urine than sell you my worst vintage. Begone from my sight.
Neither you nor your friend has the palate to appreciate the subtle qualities of my private stock.
I would sooner serve you goobbue urine than sell you my worst vintage. Begone from my sight.
I take it he said no?...Really, in those words? Hm, well, I cannot say that I am surprised.
While there's no denying his passion and skill, the Wine Baron of Limsa Lominsa is not a man known for his tact.
Very well. We shall have to take an alternative approach.
There is a chance, however small, that another resident of Wineport can furnish us with a suitable wine. In fact, had you come several years ago, I guarantee this would not be a problem.
Alas, the quality of our product has declined significantly in recent years. The only breeds cultivated these days are common lowland vines. Which isn't to say that their grapes are of poor quality─only that we have known better.
Long ago, the vignerons of Wineport crossbred several species, and produced a grape-bearing vine of never-before-seen quality.
Bacchus grapes were once the pride of this town, as they were used to produce vintages which surpassed all others.
This includes the most aromatic, the most complex, the most flavorful of all wines─aye, the legendary Bacchus wines were born right here in Wineport!
Ahem. Pardon my enthusiasm. You see, I once had the privilege to sample that particular wine.
It was an otherworldly experience. In that moment, I felt as though I had tasted the nectar of the gods themselves. I transcended my mortal flesh, and was one with all creation.
<sigh> But, as is all too often said, the Calamity changed that. The Bacchus vineyards were completely destroyed, along with much of the existing stock of Bacchus wine. What little remains is closely guarded by its owners, for it can no longer be made.
If we cannot convince Byrglaent to part with his wines, our next best option─as ridiculous as it sounds─is to find someone who has a bottle of Bacchus wine, and to offer them every gil we can spare. I've heard rumors that one of the vignerons tending the vineyards might have once owned a bottle─perhaps you could start by speaking with them?
