Aye, as did I! Leave the poor woman alone, you damnable vulture!
Wh-Who said that!?
Grrr! I will overlook this...but just this once!
Gods bless ye, adventurer! If ye hadn't come along when ye did, who knows what that monster might've done!? It don't bear thinkin' about...
Case closed!
Hello again!
We have been keeping a close eye on you ever since you left Gridania.
You discharged your duty as envoy impeccably, and never once faltered in the face of myriad dangers.
But more importantly, you were always ready to help those in need, even if you didn't stand to earn a gil by doing so!
You are possessed of all the qualities we seek in an adventurer, of this we are convinced.
Even if you were kind of dragged into that business with the dodo meat.
Yes, thank you, Yda. Ahem. And then there is the matter of your gift. I daresay you are curious as to the nature of the vision you bore witness to moments ago? Well, we can help you to understand it.
You're not the only one with that power, you know. We have a friend who has it too, and we'd love for you to meet her.
And meeting her is only the beginning, for we would also have you lend your strength to our cause. In return, we should be glad to assist your adventuring endeavors in whatever way we are able.
Should you decide to take us up on our offer─and I sincerely hope you will─pray speak with Momodi. The proprietress of the Quicksand is a good friend of ours. She will tell you where to find us.
Waaait a minute─we haven't even told you the name of our order! We're the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, defenders of justice! Oh, but don't tell anyone. Except for Momodi. She knows already.
Hmph. Scenes like that are becomin' ever more common, I'm afraid. Don't worry, though─if you work hard, you'll probably be all right.
Sayin' that, if you ever find yourself in a spot of bother, come and see me. Just don't go pesterin' me every time you graze your knee, eh?
...'Course, I do enjoy hearin' tell of a gentleman's woes with the womenfolk from time to time...
Ah, Forename! Sorry to keep you waitin'─I was just providin' guidance to a fresh-off-the-carriage adventurer.
But gods, it's good to see you safe and well! To look at you, no one would ever guess you'd been hard at it with giants in the dark!
You're every ilm the adventurer Miounne said you'd be, Forename. The stationmaster will be overjoyed when he hears the news!
Oh, before I forget, there's a lass here who wants a word with you. Didn't actually know your name, but hearin' her description, I knew who she meant right away.
Th-Thank you for sparing the time. I realize you don't know me, but I've been longing to speak with you for a while now.
My name is Edda. I'm an adventurer like you, though I'm not very good at being one, if truth be told. Anyway, I was adventuring with my friends in Gridania when...when... I-I'm sorry. We were in Gridania...when the leader of our party was killed.
His name was Avere, and he and I were to be wed in the spring. You may not remember him, but to say that he remembered you would be an understatement. He would sing your praises from dawn to dusk. He saw you for what you are, you see─an adventurer's adventurer─and swore that he would be like you one day.
I believe that he would have succeeded...had a fiend not robbed him of the chance. Since that day, I have thought long and hard about giving up adventuring.
But when I think of the woman you are─of all that you've achieved─I find that I am inspired, just as Avere once was.
And so I've decided to start again as an adventurer. I will go back to the village of my birth and begin my training anew.
But I wanted to meet you first...to ask you your name.
Forename Surname... I shan't forget.
Thank you, Forename Surname. I pray that we will meet again. Fare you well!
Adventurin' can be a cruel bleedin' business... Time was, I didn't know why anyone would bother. When they first asked me to take charge of the guild here, I didn't want aught to do with you lot─thought it'd be a right pain in the arse lookin' after you all.
But against my better judgment, I decided to accept the post...and I'm full glad I did. I feel privileged to be a part of your lives.
And that goes double for yours, Forename!
...Eh? What did you say? You want to know about the Scions of the Seventh Dawn?
They're beginnin' to move in earnest, then...
Listen, Forename─the Scions ain't no ordinary folk, and the work they do ain't no ordinary work. I know full well how capable you are, but even you would think twice about attemptin' some of the stuff they do. Knowin' that, if you're still certain you want to get involved, I'll tell you what I can.
So you want to know more, then, do you? Well, ain't that a surprise... I swear, if I painted “CERTAIN DEATH” on one door and “LIMITLESS WEALTH” on another, nine out of ten adventurers would go through the first, and the other bloke wouldn't be able to choose, on account of bein' Ul'dahn. Anyway, don't say I didn't warn you.
First of all, if you're wonderin' whether you can trust these “Scions of the Seventh Dawn,” you can. They're good people who've made it their mission to solve some of Eorzea's most pressin' problems. 'Course, that ain't no small task, and so they're always lookin' for dependable individuals to join 'em─individuals like you, Forename.
Now, I've been given leave to tell you where to find the Scions, but you must promise to keep this information to yourself. As you can probably imagine, it's somethin' Eorzea's enemies would very much like to know.
The Scions are headquartered in Vesper Bay, out in western Thanalan. The place you're lookin' for is called the Wakin' Sands. Give your name to whoever's at the entrance, and you'll be let in.
You're a woman in demand, Forename, and the days ahead promise to be busy, but I hope you won't forget about them as helped make you into the adventurer you are. Drop in and tell 'em how you're farin' from time to time, you hear? Right, well, I've said my piece. Off you go.
