He was abandoned, the poor dear. We found him in the driftdowns a few years ago.
We know some manner of accident happened at the facility after this was recorded. Perhaps your mother couldn't come back for you.
Hey, Gulool Ja...
I'm fine, Lamaty'i.
Father and Mother, they were both so lonely...
If we could've been together, maybe they wouldn't have been. But sometimes things don't work out, no matter how hard you try.
I...I can't tell if I'm happier now...
...But it's better to know, I think. Thank you, everyone.
No matter how brave a face Gulool Ja puts on, I expect it will take him time to come to terms with this.
He is a strong one, though. You needn't worry too much.
It's okay. I wanted to know more about my parents, and now I do. And I don't regret it.
I have Lamaty'i, and Koana, and you, Forename. I'm not lonely now.
If the dome had not appeared, Teeshal Ja's tale would have been very different. Yet whether or not she would have been happier, I cannot say.
...You may find it hard to believe, but until the rite of succession, Zoraal Ja was a good brother to me. Always. And I thought that Papa was the best father anyone could ask for.
I don't want to think the time we spent together as a family was a lie. But by the same token, the bitterness my brother harbored was all too real...
Teeshal Ja left written records as well. I'll compile them for Gulool Ja. Perhaps something in them will be of comfort.
Why leave such a record, you ask? I cannot be certain, but I believe Teeshal Ja simply wanted someone to know how she felt. To understand.
What a mess...
"It's better to know“... A profound response, for one so young.
Though I wish he didn't have to be, Gulool Ja is indeed wise beyond his years.
Yet one never outgrows the need for dependable companions. 'Tis fortunate that he has you.
Thank you, Shale. Because of you, I got to hear my mother's whole story.
You heard it because you were brave enough to listen, Gulool Ja. If you remember one thing, remember that.
Now then─having shared what I can at present, I am ready to head to Living Memory when you are.
I am planning to be thorough, so we will need to stop for supplies on the way.
That said, I promise we won't remain overlong. I know we all have much and more to attend to.
For now, farewell.
One wouldn't know it to look at them, but Shale and Y'shtola are birds of a feather. An incorrigibly restless feather...
Is Shale going to be alright out there? The whole time she was working on the data, I never saw her take a break...
I'll stick around for a while. Let me know if you need me.
With the railroad ready, I'd like to get some idea of how many returnees we can expect before heading back to Tuliyollal.
The twins have yet to return. I hope everything is all right.
A word, before you leave.
Our network's already spreading word of the railroad. We expected people would be clamoring to get on the first train back...
Yet the reaction's been the polar opposite. Scant few seem inclined to depart Alexandria any time soon.
What? When we spoke before, you said many from Tuliyollal were eager to reunite with friends and family.
Maybe they're concerned about getting through Vanguard? If so, we could take turns accompanying them...
In any case, we need to speak with the people ourselves. Let's start at leynode nine.
I'm as surprised as you are. Everyone was keen to pack their bags before, but now that the journey's possible, they can't be bothered?
The people were so nervous about remaining in Alexandria... I cannot help but wonder what prompted this sudden change of heart.
Perhaps we will venture out for a bit ourselves.
I've asked Geode to fill me in on all that has happened in the dome of late. If I hear anything of interest, I'll be sure to pass it on.
Now that the railroad's working again, it'll be much easier to visit Tuliyollal. It would be nice to see Koana again as well.
There may still be people gathering in Praxis Park. Let's try there first.
The people look uneasy. Did something happen?
