Hm? You don't seem to be─<bleep> <bloop> Error. Error. User registration...c-c-confirmed.
I bid you welcome to Canal Town, the resort of romance and relaxation! Please enjoy your stay!
What a charming place...
That's them. The people Sphene strives to protect.
They look happy.
So, what's this request of yours?
I want you to erase us. Erase the Endless.
What?
And by “erase,” she means...
For now, let us hear the rest.
Cahciua must have her reasons.
...
Oh, come now, spare me those gloomy faces.
Being alive, you're the only ones who can do this. And we won't have a better opportunity than now, while Queen Sphene is busy preparing to initiate interdimensional fusion.
It's wrong to sacrifice others to sustain the Endless. This I firmly believe.
But talking to you now, you seem as real as any of us. And if you need an answer right away, I don't know if I can give it.
Is there a reason we need to act so soon?
Because, as you've just said, it's wrong to sacrifice others to sustain us. Remember, we need life force─other forms of aether don't cut it.
In the beginning, we managed with the aether of those who died in the barrier. But as our numbers grew, there began to be a shortage.
That's why Queen Sphene looked to other sources. Even the aether I'm composed of may have come from the victims of the attack on Tuliyollal.
I can't bear that thought. Can't bear to exist because someone died.
We'd probably feel the same way if we were in your shoes... But what exactly are you asking us to do?
In each zone, there is an enormous data storage device called a terminal. That is where our memories are kept.
If you shut down a terminal, the memories within will disappear─along with those Endless created from them.
But does this need to be done now? Can't we stop Sphene first, and then take it from there?
It's precisely in order to stop Sphene that it must be done now.
Her own memories are stored within the Meso Terminal, which stands at the heart of Living Memory.
As you would expect, the terminal's defenses are extremely tight. But it has moments of vulnerability, such as when it has just finished calculations, which we can exploit to shut it down from within.
While we wait for that opening, we erase the Endless. Once we are gone, Sphene will no longer have a reason to plunder aether from other worlds.
Would Sphene simply allow us to shut down the terminals?
In preparation for fusion, the Meso Terminal is currently performing massive calculations while gathering energy. Even if the system notices us, it cannot easily suspend the process.
Rather than doing so, I believe it will attempt to accelerate the timetable and bridge worlds before the plan can be thwarted.
It wouldn't be a decision Sphene would wish to make, but she would be able to save those who are stored in the Meso Terminal, at least...
There's sense in your strategy, and in resolving to stop Sphene, we had anticipated that it might come to this. But to actually talk about erasing the Endless...is difficult.
You needn't feel any guilt. No matter how lifelike we may seem, we Endless are but facsimiles crafted from memories.
Besides, stopping Sphene requires that you shut down the Meso Terminal, which sustains all of us. Sooner or later, it will need to be done.
If we are to be erased, then let it be before more people come to harm. Living, breathing people with futures they deserve to experience.
I'm afraid not. We spent years scouring Preservation's records, but found nothing. It's truly a bothersome system they've created.
<chuckle> While I appreciate the thought, we can't afford to miss this chance. Do this for me, will you?
Thank you. For respecting my wish.
And, as a personal request... While her actions cannot be condoned, I ask that you afford Queen Sphene a measure of understanding. Know that she herself didn't choose to become an Endless.
It was Preservation that made the choice for her.
She is powerless to resist her purpose.
What do you mean?
The Sphene you know is an ideal that Preservation brought to life.
Harnessing the love the living Sphene bore for her people, they brought forth an eternal queen whose primary directive is to preserve the Endless.
But as you know, the Endless consume aether. Sphene was compelled to find ways to procure it, and that compulsion has driven her to resort to interdimensional fusion.
What? Are you telling me the original Sphene wouldn't have chosen this?
What the queen might have done, only she herself would know.
But the scientists of Preservation have vanished, leaving their created queen to walk alone.
So as you go about your mission, think not that you're stopping a ruthless villain. But rather, that you're relieving a troubled soul of her burden.
Alright, Cahciua. We understand now. Both your reasoning and your feelings.
But before we erase the Endless, I'd like to know them. I'd like to know what she fights tooth and nail for.
If we're going to reject someone's beliefs, let it be after we've come to understand them. This is a lesson I learned from the rite of succession.
I realize we're pressed for time, but if it's alright with you, I want to meet as many people as I can.
You truly are Gulool Ja Ja's kitten... Well, the calculations will take a while still. It should be fine if we do this as we proceed to the terminals.
I'm with you. We might not be able to learn everything, but it would nevertheless be meaningful if we could glimpse the hearts of those who inhabit this place before we set them free.
I'll leave you to it, then. When you've finished here, come and find me at the fountain near that big clock tower.
Right, let's split up and find some locals to speak with!
It really is a lovely place. You should run along and enjoy it while you can.
I will not object to your decision... And as my mother says, you needn't feel any guilt.
Yet I admit I myself am still conflicted. To have such doubts after coming all this way... It's laughable, isn't it?
I must say, I'm starting to enjoy myself. Even if it's only brief, this has the feel of a journey.
Your ancestors were refugees from Lindblum? What tales they must have...
The Endless seem to eat the food with relish, but it couldn't be real...could it?
A part of me hopes that my parents are here too, but it's probably too much to ask for...
