Welcome to the Capitol. All visitors must present an official writ of permission before admittance will be granted.
Your documents appear to be in order. You may proceed into the Capitol─but any guests you may choose to bring with you must remain in your vicinity at all times.
This really is unacceptable. I gave you very specific instructions.
Emet-Selch!
My invitation was for an abomination, ripe with the power to bring about the world's annihilation.
Not this half-broken...thing. Whatever am I to do with you?
And I see you insist on keeping the same familiar company. Are you so lost without them?
It is not she who is lost without the familiar.
Not content with remaking an entire city, you aim to fill it with the reconstituted souls of the dead.
I may have gotten a little carried away, in my attention to detail. Added a few unnecessary flourishes...
Weeell, there's no point trying to hide it. Yes.
Once the rejoining of worlds is complete, Zodiark will regain His full strength and shatter His prison.
Then we shall offer up the Source's remaining inhabitants in sacrifice, that we might resurrect our brethren who died to bring Zodiark into existence.
But what was it that you came here to do, exactly?
Did you now? One last do-or-die attempt to foil my plans before your mind dissolves into madness?
How very, very...heroic of you.
In every single age, there is always someone who wants to stand up to the evil Ascians.
Always the same arrogance, the same insistence that the world belongs to them. As if theirs were the only rightful claim, theirs the only existence worthy of preservation!
Well, you can't have him. The wisdom that man guards may open up new worlds of possibilities.
He has unlocked the secrets of travel across the rift─and through time as well, it would seem. Quite an accomplishment for one of his “incomplete” nature.
I must explore the limits of his capabilities, and harness that power for the Ardor.
Even now, after everything, you refuse to see reason.
You think it unfair that you are subject to suffering? That your lives will be sacrificed for the ancients?
Look at me! I have lived a thousand thousand of your lives!
I have broken bread with you, fought with you, grown ill, grown old! Sired children and yes, welcomed death's sweet embrace.
For eons have I measured your worth and found you wanting! Too weak and feeble-minded to serve as stewards of any star!
Have your recent spats with Vauthry and his sin eaters taught you nothing?
Have you not learned that your ignorance and frailty beget only endless misery?
How long do you mean to perpetuate this farce? How much more must I endure your bumbling interference?
Let us imagine that the laws of reality are again undone, and the world faces true annihilation. Do you honestly believe that half your number would sacrifice themselves to save the other?
Of course they wouldn't!
And if you had witnessed history unfold as I have, you would reach the same conclusion!
You cannot be entrusted with our legacy.
I will bring back our brethren. Our friends. Our loved ones. The world belongs to us and us alone.
Emet-Selch!
We understand. Truly. But it makes no difference.
The ones you love are in the past.
While ours are here in the present.
One day, we too will be ashes and dust, but not today. Our time is not yet finished.
We share your conviction...and that is why we will not abandon our course.
You think us the same? You think your tattered soul of equal worth to those I lost?
Then come─earn your place. Prove yourselves worthy to inherit this star.
Behold, the coming oblivion. 'Twas the end of our era, and the beginning of our great work.
A fitting backdrop...for your final judgment.
I shall wait within, but do not spend too much time on your preparations. There's no telling how much longer the guest of honor will last.
I won't ask you to hold back─that time is long past. I'll just try to snuff out the worst of the embers before they reach you.
Just say the word, Forename. However harrowing the scenes that await us, they will not sway us from our course.
In those Final Days, 'tis said that monstrous beasts were set loose in the city─terrors made flesh by sorceries run rampant.
If Emet-Selch hath been faithful in his reconstruction, then we must be prepared to face many such abominations.
I reasoned that Emet-Selch would not harm the Exarch until he had learned the tower's secrets, but his parting words suggest otherwise.
Let us make haste. Your friend may not have the luxury of decades to wait for you this time.
Ready when you are, Forename. If it's proof he wants, we'll give him a fight the likes of which he's never seen.
I can feel it, beyond the flames...a Darkness waiting to swallow our Light.
Wherever you are, Minfilia, watch over us and guide our steps...
