Let me go, damn it! You've got the wrong man!
<sniff> <sniff> My, but you reek of oil. And are those burns on your hands? An occupational hazard, I suppose. But tell me─does arson pay well?
I-I'm a victim, you imbecile! Look at me!
Aye, that you are─after a fashion. You should know that your pious patron has already spun us a delightful yarn about how his pet mongrel slipped the leash and set about burning half the city to the ground. Not very noble of him, I grant you─but then these highborn types rarely do show loyalty to their pets.
...In fact, he called you rabid and begged us to put you down.
Th-That's bollocks! He's the one what told me to keep goin'!
...Even a sinner such as me could find salvation in the Fury's work, he said. I'd left it behind─tried to, with all my heart! Said my prayers every day, like a good man. But he came to me! He came to me!
And there you have it. Hilda, would you be so kind as to escort our friend here to the Congregation?
Aye. So long as you don't mind if he's limpin' when he gets there.
That was incredible, Thancred! But how did you know he would confess?
Well, I have seen his like before. A troubled soul, manipulated by men of power and wielded as a weapon...
I could not be certain, of course. But given the stakes, I thought it worth the risk.
And if our captive had called your bluff?
Must we entertain hypotheticals? The world as it is is vexing enough.
Thank you, Thancred. Whether by luck or judgment, we have at last confirmed that these arsons were orchestrated by a person or persons of influence. I think it best that we now return to the Congregation and discuss how best to proceed.
On behalf of the Holy See of Ishgard, I thank you all.
The man you apprehended is being interrogated as we speak. Though he fell silent upon realizing that we had not turned his master, he will soon tell us what he knows, one way or another.
Pardon the intrusion, First Commander...
Ah, Lord Artoirel. Are you come to see your father? He is attending Ser Aymeric in his chambers at present.
I am. He bid me bring this salve.
Then do not let me detain you. And thank you for your kindness, my lord.
In times of trouble, every man must do his part. Would that I could do more.
...My lord Artoirel did not seem to be in the best of spirits.
'Tis little wonder, Master Alphinaud. His father is widely slandered, and his half-brother not yet cold in the grave.
I do not mean to diminish our accomplishments, but until we identify the ones who ordered the fires set, our work is far from finished.
Between the various conservative and religious factions in Ishgard, I daresay there is no shortage of parties who would like to see the status quo preserved. Do any likely suspects spring to mind?
Far too many to count.
Lord Commander, your wounds!
Are healing well, thank you.
Time is of the essence. Lest we forget, these men would sooner put their own city to the torch than see it change.
When our enemies learn that we have apprehended their arsonist, there is no telling how they will react.
