Wh-What's going on?
A skirmish has broken out up ahead with the Ixal! For your own safety, you must remain here until─
Bloody hells! We shall hold them here! Try to break clear!
That was too bleedin' close...
Nice of the Ixal to send us a welcomin' party though, eh?
Jokin' aside, this won't be the last time you meet those feathered fiends, so just you take care, all right?
By the by, is this your first trip to Gridania?
It is!? Well then, let this journeyed itinerant tell you the ins an' outs of your destination.
Thought not! Ah, but I'll wager there've been some changes since your last visit. Allow a journeyed itinerant to apprise you of the current state of affairs. Ahem!
The city of Gridania lies slap-bang in the middle of the Black Shroud─the biggest, lushest forest in all Eorzea.
Though it ain't near as lush as it used to be, sayin' that. Not since the Calamity laid half of it to waste.
The destruction prompted a herd of new nasties to move in, an' gave the Ixal unneeded encouragement. Birdman raids've become a daily occurence.
Ah, at long last.
Behold Gridania, the forest nation blessed by the elementals!
The Black Shroud--the ancient forest close to the heart of Eorzea.
Beneath the boughts of its towering rrees lies the woodland city-state of Gridania.
Once a sancutary from the world beyond the Hedge, even the mighty elementals, eternal guardians of the forest, could not forestall the coming of the Seventh Umbral Era.
However, the goddess Nophica was never one to foresake Her children, and today She welcomes another brave soul... one who may yet play a telling role in the tale of this great realm.
An' here's where we part ways, lass.
I'm off to the markets to deliver me wares, then it's back to the highroad for me.
Here, I want you to have this─by way of thanks for keepin' me company.
Hey─you never did tell me your name, did you? Well, here's an idea...
Become the sort of storied personage I can brag about havin' met, an' I'll consider us square.
May the Matron take her to her Bosom, that she may never want.
And in her heart sow serenity, purity, and sanctity.
