An organization with the freedom to operate with territorial impunity? I must say, your proposal intrigues me.
But the Krakens well know that there is a time to act, and a time to watch. And I'm afraid this...“trial company” of yours falls into the latter category.
A precursor to a united Eorzean Grand Company? Hmmm. While I do admire the scope of your ambition, my responsibilities here at Naldiq & Vymelli's keep me close to the forge.
I have not the time to be traipsing hither and yon across the realm. Should you require my skills as an armorer, however, I might be willing to accept some special commissions...
Well, if it ain't Forename! I'd not forget a 'venturer brave enough─or daft enough─to seek the shortcut into Titan's bedchamber!
Ye remember ol' Riol, don't ye? Formerly o' the Company of Heroes? Three whistles at Bronze Lake? Aye, it ain't often I drag me arse out to Limsa for a drink, but I'm right glad I did! How fare ye these days?
Hm? Yer lookin' to put together a new crew? Top-tier work? Hah, sounds like a right lark, it does!
Alrighty, lass, count me in. The Heroes may've gone their separate ways, but I ain't ready to climb into me grave just yet!
Forename, your recruiting went well, I trust? I am curious as to how my proposal was received by the rough-and-ready folk of Limsa Lominsa.
Ah, a member of the legendary Company of Heroes indicated his interest? Astonishing. I knew enlisting your aid was the right choice─few could boast the acquaintance of such an elusive character.
I, too, was successful in my task: the Admiral consented to sign all the documents requiring her approval. I can only hope that my visit with the Elder Seedseer proceeds as smoothly. Pray continue on to Gridania at your own pace─I shall await your arrival at Nophica's Altar.
My audience with the Elder Seedseer is due to commence momentarily. I would be grateful if you would once more see to the task of recruitment here in Gridania.
After you deem the well of potential candidates has run dry, let us rendezvous at the airship ticket counter as before.
Oh gods, can it truly be you!? By what fickle fortune must the first face I see upon my release be yours!?
...Eh? Could it be that you don't remember me? It is I, Laurentius, the man whose crimes you exposed. I was a Wailer, and a regular patron at Buscarron's...
Well, of course you do! I was beginning to wonder if gaol had changed me more than I realized. ...Not that I have any particular wish to be recognized after my shameful conduct.
Laurentius! I...I was selling maps and supplies to the Garleans, before you and those Redbelly poachers mopped the forest floor with my erstwhile employers. ...Here now, just how many criminals have you dealt with that my ignominious tale ignites not the slightest flicker of recognition!?
Will you say nothing!? Does my presence disgust you so? Or do you simply not care to remember our encounter at all?
Hmph. The less said of my past, the better, I suppose. And what of you, adventurer? What business brings you to this part of Gridania?
Recruiting, eh? And what is your policy on reformed convicts?
As matters stand, the Wood Wailers will have naught more to do with me. This...this may be just the second chance I was looking for...
Revenant's Toll, you say? I shall leave at once! You shall not regret this, I promise you! I am a changed man!
Hmmm. 'Tis not often a guild officer such as myself gets recruited. And this company of yours certainly sounds to have some promise... But its duties appear less than focused. I must refuse your invitation until such time as your organization is more...organized.
Pray forgive me, young mistress, but I cannot accept. I have sworn to abide here for whatever scant years remain to me, and bear responsibility for the evils my lady has wrought upon this land...
Grandfather, you must call it a day! Let us return to the guild and rest ere your tormented back gives up on you for good!
I'm terribly sorry, we were just─ Oh, Forename, isn't it? It has been some time since our paths crossed outside of Copperbell Mines.
Why, you were barely more than a novice adventurer then, but look how far you've come... Mother Miounne tells me 'twas you who felled the fearsome Black Wolf!
And now you seek stout-hearted souls to fill the ranks of a new order? Hmmm, well your cause is undoubtedly just, and my old companion here would be much relieved to see me in good hands...
Yes. Yes, I'll do it! This is the very thing I've spent my entire adventuring career working towards! I shall join your company just as soon as I've seen Isildaure safely home.
What news, Forename? For my part, the Elder Seedseer was most amenable to our requirements.
...A former Wood Wailer, and a seasoned adventurer? Our company will not lack for variety, that much is certain. An interesting harvest, indeed.
Shall we strike into Ul'dah whilst the iron is hot? Let us meet at the Royal Promenade and endeavor to conclude our remaining business. Our journey draws to a close...
Ul'dah, the gilded city, where one's fortune defines one's worth. I hope some manner of fortune is with us, and that this final leg proves as successful as the previous two.
Might I suggest descending to the lower level before beginning your recruitment efforts? I do not think the sultana will take kindly to us poaching from her personal guard.
Let us meet back here at the Promenade when our respective tasks are complete. Good hunting, Forename.
