Hm? If you've come looking for work, I might have a spot for another guard─
Oh. Oh! A friend of the Exarch! Hoping to meet someone in Amh Araeng, are you?
Then I shall be your guide! I was about to set off for our outpost there, as a matter of fact, so we can leave right away─assuming you have everything you need?
All set? Then off to the unforgiving sands we go!
Amh Araeng. From this parched earth the nation of Nabaath Areng once rose.
When I journeyed here, long ago, I spoke with a sun-weathered elder.
He told me Amh Araeng meant “majestic land” in the language of his people.
And so it might still be...were it not for the Light's unrelenting onslaught...
Oof, no matter how many times I come here, the heat never fails to catch me off guard! Don't be surprised when the temperature drops at night, though─the sky is still bright, of course, but it gets brisk enough to make you shiver.
Now, the Exarch's letter said I was to take you to the Inn at Journey's Head, which is where this Alisaie friend of yours is staying.
But that's a fair old distance. So I propose we make a stop in Mord Souq to break up the trek─allowing me to attend to some business, and you to enjoy the local hospitality. Sound good? Good!
All right, you lot! I'm off, and I'd better not see the goods covered in sand when I get back!
Right, we head southwest, straight as an arrow!
Stop here a moment. This is your first visit to Amh Araeng, is it not?
Before you cross the River of Sand, you need to turn around and feast your eyes on that!
They built them big, didn't they? That's Qasr Sharl, a fortress meant to protect the northern reaches of Nabaath Areng.
Seeing what was left behind, I believe it when they say that it was once one of Norvrandt's mightiest nations.
...At least until the Flood came along. Great chunks of Nabaath Areng's lands were lost to the Light, its great city included. The few who survived didn't see much point in staying. Most of them, anyway.
No, not many choose to come here these days, not with everything in ruins. Even that hulking great fortress has become little more than an amaro roost for me and my caravan.
But not everywhere is as deserted as this place. Just wait until you see Mord Souq...
Let's press on, shall we!
Here we are─Mord Souq! By the blessed shadow, I love this town!
Mord Souq... Not just full of Mord, but Humes and all manner of others, too! It has long been a refuge for folk displaced by the Flood, so the population is nothing if not diverse.
Oh, have you met a Mord before? They might look like shifty little blighters, but a more welcoming lot you could never wish to meet!
Speaking of which, we should pay our respects to Master Ghen Gen. I'll go ahead and let him know we've arrived.
Master Ghen Gen, this is the friend of the Exarch I was telling you about.
