The garb worn by Lady Alisaie and Lord Alphinaud was commissioned especially for them by Lady Ameliance. She spares no effort in expressing her profound love for her dear children.
And that was that. Only the gods know when we'll be back again...
Thank you for indulging Mother's request─I can see it meant a lot to her. And I, uh, shall refrain from inquiring as to the content of your private conversation.
Our visit was all too brief... For now, however, it will have to suffice. As will these tokens of home that we carry with us─these gifts to help us remember who we are and whence we came...
But enough sentimentality. Let us return to the annex and rejoin our companions!
If I intend to master these sage's armaments, that will mean learning to imbue them with the same aether that I poured into Moonstone and Obsidian.
'Tis difficult to grasp the essence of such an entity... For me, it will help to think of the nouliths as allies in battle─simply a new form of the energy which went into manifesting my Carbuncle companions.
Don't think for a moment that I'm jealous of Alphinaud's new weapons. They're far more suited to him than me.
We left for Eorzea in matching outfits, but our styles─both fashion and fighting─have long since diverged. If anything, I'm proud of the differences between us.
For us to feel responsible for the schism of House Leveilleur would be pure hubris. After all, we are merely on the outskirts of what is, essentially, a family affair.
And yet neither can we claim the indifference of strangers. To hear their mother welcome them so warmly was a joy...and a relief.
As curious as I am to learn the truth of this “duty,” I wonder what else the Forum is hiding. A calamitous secret whose origin lies in the aetherial sea...
Duplicity aside, however, I do not believe Master Fourchenault means us ill. Even the harsh words he had for his children stemmed not from anger, I think, but desperation.
Enjoyed your time with the Leveilleurs, I hope? I would ask how the twins fared, but their new outfits tell the tale!
I only hope we can help them to reconcile with their father, that they might return home one day with their heads held high...
In the meantime, we edge ever closer to the secret the Forum strives to hide. And the flower bequeathed to you by Hydaelyn is sure to guide us going forward.
I'm confident that once you've scouted out the situation in Thavnair, we'll be well equipped to plot out our next move!
I'm confident that once we've heard your report from Thavnair, we'll be well equipped to plot out our next move!
It's wonderful how a garment given in love can so easily change one's whole outlook.
I remember when I was still coming to terms with my talent in the Echo. Just being wrapped in the robe my grandfather gave me somehow made everything less daunting.
I have Krile's instructions in hand. If you are ready to set out, then so are we.
Having been to Thavnair before, I can travel by aetheryte, but what of the rest of you? Another sea voyage would waste time we do not have.
Krile was of the same mind, and has already secured the aid of the good folk of the Confluence. We'll take ourselves there.
The Confluence, thou sayest...
I'm afraid so, my friend.
Thou wilt recall the hunt for Iceheart, unto whose sanctuary we delivered thee owing to the knowledge of our comrade Moenbryda.
Moenbryda was an authority on aetherology─a field of study she did embark upon in pursuit of her parents' example.
Both are authorities in their own right...and both are researchers at the Confluence.
Haven't you gone to see them yet?
I attempted to do so earlier, but to my shame, my courage failed me at the last.
As it hath the many times I thought to reach out to them after sending that fateful letter.
Neither time nor introspection have revealed unto me the words I should speak, and thus have I kept my silence...
Whether you come with us or no is your choice and yours alone.
If it is too difficult, we'll manage.
Thou art kind to say so, but I have no intention of forsaking our cause. I shall go to the Confluence, and I shall face that which hath long been overdue.
If it's settled, then let us be off. When we arrive, we should look for a researcher named Kytte.
