Beg your pardon, madam, but I am busy attending to this man. I will be with you in a moment.
Is that...? <sniff> <sniff> Come to think of it, it has been quite a while since I last ate. I suppose it wouldn't hurt to have a nibble...
Oh my, this is fantastic! Thank you so much! I'll eat the rest right away!
Might I have a word with you, Forename? It concerns the chirurgeons. After speaking with them earlier, I learned that they lack sufficient alembics for their needs, you see...
So I used some of their broken equipment to craft a more advanced alembic─both as a gesture of goodwill, and as a means to help me recover my memories, since working with my hands kindles familiar feelings.
All I require to complete the device are the cores of three ice sprites. Though commonly used to reduce the temperatures of alchemical mixtures, there is a way to alter their properties so that they draw the cold within rather than radiate it without.
It must sound ridiculous to you─impossible, even. Yet somehow I know it will work.
Have you obtained the cores? If so, please show them to me.
What an amazing device! But...is it truly an alembic, sir? I've never seen its like before.
I too am unsure what to make of this machine. While certainly impressive, I've no idea how to make use of it.
Nevertheless, if it is as effective as he claims, it will be a great boon to the infirmary! Think of the medicines we could create, the lives we could save!
Even so, I wonder...
Ware thee the kindly stranger, bearer of gifts wondrous and strange, for his generosity comes at cost.
Their earnest efforts are but a means to an as-yet-unknown end. Moreover, you should be wary of associating with individuals who have interfered with the questioning of a suspected heretic.
They did what!? Bless you, Inquisitor, for coming along when you did! We almost succumbed to the temptation proffered by these...these unbelievers!
Why does that man detest us so? Is it all because we interrupted Lord Francel's trial?
Whatever his reasons, he clearly means to oppose us at every turn...
Before we can persuade Lord Drillemont to help us, it seems we must convince Inquisitor Guillaime that we are not his enemy. But just how might we go about doing that...?
We know little and less about the good inquisitor, despite him being such a prominent figure in Coerthas. Perhaps we should learn more by speaking with the people of Whitebrim Front.
Share your findings with Alphinaud in the square. I'm sure he can formulate a strategy from there.
