Grrraaaaaawr!
Who disturbs the gloom?Ahhh, mortals from the realm of light.You have not stumbled here without purpose...
I am the Cloud of Darkness.What I do not smother, I devour.What I cannot devour, I destroy.
The covenant is everlasting.All mortals before the flood of darknesswill sink lifeless into the void!
The void shall consume all that is!
Darkness take you all!
In darkness, all is as one. Be it hope or despair, everything is mine to devour.
You cannot overcome what does not exist!Of darkness I am born...and to darkness I shall return!
Where in the seven hells are they!? Without them to stem the energy in the tower, our defeat of the Cloud aids our cause little.
Doga! Unei! Can you hear me? Nero!
Must you be so infernally loud!? Are you so keen to attract more voidsent?
...Though I don't blame you for missing my company.
Thank the Twelve! Are you all right?
As all right as can be expected. Unei has simply passed out.
Nero, by the gods... What's happened to you?
Alas, his wounds were too deep, and allowed this foul place entry to his body. Now, the darkness claws at the aether of his very form. Would that we could have protected him...
The Cloud of Darkness was bound by Xande's unholy covenant to bring prosperity to Allagan royalty. The same blood that sealed this contract gives us a measure of protection.
I say “a measure,” for this vow does not protect us from other voidsent. The Cloud imprisoned us here precisely to unleash fiends upon us. We would be dead had Nero not defended us so valiantly.
Mistake not my actions for kindness. I have use for you yet in Eorzea, and simply couldn't let harm befall you here.
Wh-Where...?
Unei! You are safe─our friends have come for us.
H-Have they? Then perhaps, Doga, there is yet hope we may fulfill our purpose.
Mortals! You have dared to challenge me, and now must feel my wrath!
Did you think to destroy me in my realm? Here, I am eternal! I will smother your light and entomb your bones amongst my shadows!
A-Are we truly so powerless here?
As long as we fight the Cloud in this realm, I fear so.
And yet...though we may not be able to destroy it, this may be our chance to stop it. If we strike now whilst the Cloud can barely hold her form, mayhap we can sever Xande's covenant!
Yes, and raze the bridge between the Crystal Tower and this foul place once and for all! Forename, G'raha─you must flee!
You...you and Doga mean to stay here!?
'Tis madness! You must return with us! No one but you can save the world from the threat of the Crystal Tower!
What is this trickery? ...Your blood! You too gain protection from Xande's blood!
G'raha Tia... You are possessed of royal blood! That is why the Royal Eye runs in your line!
'Tis a gift you have inherited. G'raha─you have been granted authority over the Crystal Tower!
...I had thought time would consume all of Allag that was. That a man should still live with his forebears' blood in this age can be no coincidence.
Some person must have planted this gift in your line, and used the highest of Allagan technology to do so.
True, the Crystal Tower is not like to recognize you as Allagan, not as you are now. But your Royal Eye bespeaks a simple truth: within you dwells one feeble glitter that will illuminate all, the light of hope!
But...how should I use this light? Pray, tell me!
You must gain control of the Crystal Tower. We will share our blood with you, G'raha. Though its effects will be but ephemeral, it will bolster the Allagan presence within you.
This is our gift to you, that you may fulfill your destiny. All with the Royal Eye are bound by fate to Allag. Our part in this journey is to bury Xande's dark ambitions in the past. This was the true Unei and Doga's purpose, one we have carried into the future.
Know that as long as this light of hope survives in you, our souls will still remain─even if our bodies are lost.
You must leave us as well, Nero. I am sorry we could not live up to your expectations.
I must return to you what is yours, though. You dropped it whilst defending us.
What you seek by this instrument may not be possible, Nero. But do not give up. There are many other paths that await you.
...Of course they do.
Doga, Unei, I... Thank you. We shall never forget you. Now, Forename, Nero, let us quit this place.
You shall not escape me, impudent children of light!
No, you shall not escape us.Here, Xande's bloodstained dreams of glory end.
There! The glint of light!
It...it grows faint! Then the bridge between realms grows fragile by the covenant's annulment!
If that light dies, we are stranded here! Hurry!
Nero, no! You must move!
Leave me!
I don't need you! If I die here, it'll be because I bloody well decided to!
I failed to master darkness. I'll not suffer watching a green boy master the tower.
Do what you will with it. But remember me, son of Allag!
I am Nero tol Scaeva, the man who'll yet outdo Allag and Garlond!
That was what you hoped to─
