Ahh, you must be the new, uh...
Oh, goodness me! What an adorable boy!
That silken hair, those pearly cheeks...oh, and you even smell wonderful─like a bed of flowers!
I approve of this one, dearest! I am positive he will paint us the most delightful pictures.
I, um, er, y-yes... Ahem. Well, as long as he paints better than that talentless wretch we sent packing last week...
Wonderful, wonderful! Welcome to Eulmore...um, er...
Alphinaud, if it please you, my lady. And this...is my assistant.
Your...assistant? I've heard of folk bringing in family members, but this seems a bit irregular. Aren't you a little young to have a protégé?
We are family in all but name, my lord. Though we share no blood, we have stood by each other through life's many challenges, resolved to prevail together─or not at all.
Of all people, 'tis she who best understands my work. With her unique insight guiding my hand, the art I create is sure to satisfy your expectations.
Once the picture is begun, of course, I shall have no need of constant encouragement.
And so I wondered, rather than her being in your way, might it then be permissible for my assistant to explore the city she has so longed to see?
Out of gratitude for her priceless contribution to my art, I thought it only fair that I make this humble request on her behalf.
Oooh, did you ever hear of such devotion! Of course your assistant must have her wish! She shall be free to roam to her heart's content!
...Isn't that right, darling?
Uh... Oh, yes. Yes, of course, dearest. Q-Quite right.
Now you've the opportunity to experience Eulmore, I suggest you make the most of it. Explore the city, top to bottom.
In other words, I would start with the Canopy and go from there. Try wandering around the market stalls, mayhap...? Such places are usually filled with colorful characters, only too eager to share local gossip with a friendly visitor.
...I would appreciate it, of course, if you could share any discoveries with me in turn. We should both learn as much as possible about our, ahem, “new place of residence.”
