You wish to aid the Ala Mhigans? You are possessed of a kind heart, adventurer, but I'm afraid I have not the authority to grant you your wish.
This authority belongs only to the elementals, eternal guardians of the Twelveswood. All outsiders, be they babes at the breast or men grown, are judged of a night whether they may have a place beneath the boughs.
Alas, the Ala Mhigans' petition has been denied. Harsh though it may seem, they do not have leave to receive of the wood's bounty. Ever has it been since time immemorial, and ever shall it be.
That's how it's to be, then!? The bloody Hearer might as well kill Gallien herself!
Spit on the elementals and spit on their bloody will! I cannot wait until the Resistance is free of this place!
I led my men to Quarrymill hoping to find refuge─instead we've found indifference. The cold-blooded bastards here want us out, and I can't oblige them soon enough. The problem is, some of mine aren't fit to travel─hells, Gallien can't even stand!
As you well know, the people of this accursed hamlet won't help us. So, I've no choice but to turn to you, adventurer.
In my homeland, long antelope horn is a traditional remedy with poison-purging properties. If you could bring me, say, four horns, I'd forever be in your debt.
Ah, you're back! Tell me you've got four horns with you!
You're a godssend, adventurer! Praise Rhalgr there's at least one woman in this place who gives a damn. Now we just need to find a way to prepare them...
You wouldn't happen to know a man named Buscarron, would you? Some comrades of mine told me about him once. They said he never turns away folk in need, no matter where they're from.
Seeing as he runs a tavern, he's like to have the tools to make the medicine. I'd be grateful if you could take the horns over to him to have them ground down. When that's done, bring the powder back, and give it to Faramund here. Godsspeed.
Ah, Forename, ever a sight for sore eyes! How fares the adventuring? Rolling in the coin like there's no tomorrow, no doubt!...Hm? You've got something to show me?
Well, these look like good old antelope horns. Need them ground down to make a medicine, you say?
Here's a better idea: I'll give you some of the stuff I have in my stores. Aye, I'm no stranger to the remedy. An Ala Mhigan friend once used it to treat my festering wound, years and years ago. Safe to say he saved my life.
What's that? This is for an Ala Mhigan soldier in Quarrymill? Heh, so it comes full circle... Well, I hope it helps the poor sod as needs it. Oh, and don't worry your little head off about payment─I still owe you a deal more than you owe me, I reckon.
