A Mamool Ja woman? Hmmm, their people have never been a common sight around here...
Why, the last time I saw one would have been before the dome came down over our heads.
She was among an entourage of Landsguard that was dispatched here. I assume they all returned to Tuliyollal after their mission.
But if any remained, I suppose they could've been trapped in here with the rest of us.
But if any remained, I suppose they could've been trapped in here with the rest of us.
I haven't seen the Mamool Ja woman or any of the other Landsguard since then, but I suppose it's possible some of them were trapped here with the rest of us.
You heading to the Backroom?
Ah, you're back too! I told Shale all about your search.
Solution Nine is vast indeed. Even with the teleporters, we could cover but a small portion of it.
Lamaty'i didn't seem to have much luck. How did you fare?
I'm sorry, but I couldn't find out anything useful. None of the people I questioned had heard of a Mamool Ja woman before...
While I failed to learn anything directly related to Gulool Ja's mother, I did find information which may shed some light upon Zoraal Ja.
Zoraal Ja rarely made public appearances, so the people had no idea how he spent most of his time. Yet I believe therein lies the key to the answers we seek.
This funeral is only the first step towards helping the people overcome their grief. We'll keep looking for ways to support them during these trying times.
Gulool Ja has told me all. We've previously tried to track down records of his mother, but came up empty-handed.
With everyone's help, hopefully we can get somewhere this time...
Ah, so you spoke with quite a few different people as well. Let's combine all our findings and see what conclusions we might draw.
So, Zoraal Ja brought a retinue of Landsguard to Yyasulani, among whom was a female Mamool Ja.
His mission was to rid the region of a tural vidraal, and I believe it safe to say that that was the “crisis” in Yuweyawata he resolved.
If some of his troops stuck around for a time, perhaps to assist the villagers with recovery efforts, then they could've indeed gotten trapped in the dome.
We also heard stories about the settlement in Yuweyawata. People lived there until nearly a decade ago, and Zoraal Ja made regular visits.
If he required secrecy, a location home to his most loyal followers would be ideal. And if this Mamool Ja woman had remained there, they would have had occasion to come in contact.
I see. But what could Zoraal Ja have been doing in that village?
I think we can answer that question.
In order to retrace Zoraal Ja's steps, Raha and I spoke with a researcher who worked at Origenics.
He said that, approximately twenty years ago, a number of his colleagues were transferred to a research facility outside Everkeep─per the king's direct order.
This is the first I've heard of such a facility. Only Vanguard was believed to have been under the king's jurisdiction...
It was apparently being used to develop a new kind of weapon, but I'm afraid that was all we could learn.
It's plenty to go on. Even if the work there was classified, any materials and equipment needed would have been manufactured within Everkeep.
So if we look into transportation records...
There it is.
The routes are full of detours and attempts at obfuscation, but large deliveries were being made to Yuweyawata. Far too large for a mere village.
There hasn't been any activity for years, though. It's likely the facility has been decommissioned.
Do you think that's where my mother was?
We can't say for certain just yet, but I reckon there's a good chance!
This is amazing! Even though no one remembers her, you managed to figure all of this out!
Each piece of the puzzle may reveal little on its own, but when we put several together, a picture begins to form.
And even should memories fade, footprints remain to mark the path of those who walked before.
A lesson I learned in another life.
So we'll be investigating this secret facility in Yuweyawata, then.
And this time, I want you to come along, Gulool Ja.
Yuweyawata is on the other side of the lake. To get there, you'll need to take a hover cargo from the driftdowns.
Alright. Thank you, Shale!
Make your way to the driftdowns when you're ready. Kiluwsa will have a hover cargo ready for you.
Someone would have noticed if Zoraal Ja traveled from the driftdowns. I expect he utilized a flying vehicle.
While the researcher we spoke with remembered that he had colleagues, he couldn't recall details about any specific individuals. Not their names nor what they were like...
We've seen how much has changed for the part of Yyasulani that's on this side of the dome. I wonder what it's like on the other...
The settlement in the outskirts─that was originally Tonawawtan as well, yes? I wonder if Yuweyawata is similar to it.
Weapons developed in secret with the aid of devoted followers... Nothing good will have come of this.
I'll remain nearby after dropping you off. Just let me know when you're ready to head back.
So the hover cargo will take us across the lake... I've never been over there before.
It's still inside the dome, so I don't expect it'll be too different from here.
We'll likely encounter dangerous beasts, so the rest of us will go first. You follow when it's safe to do so, alright?
Alright. Be careful, everyone!
Don't worry about me. I'm good at hiding from beasts.
I promised to look after Gulool Ja, but I've spent hardly any time with him. I'm going to make up for that.
If the facility was used to research new weaponry, then it will have had tight security. Even if it has been closed down, let us proceed with caution.
While I alone haven't seen much of the dome, I am no stranger to braving the unknown. I will not slow us down.
We've seen the havoc that Valigarmanda wreaked on Urqopacha. I wonder what this other tural vidraal might have left in its wake.
I can't help but be reminded of our foray into Origenics. And of Cahciua...
My father must've come here for a reason...
The lightning hasn't let up here either.
Even the creatures here are electrified...
There are beasts here, too!?
Bolts can strike anywhere─step lightly!
You did it!
Not exactly a leisurely trek...
That one looks mean. Be careful!
I guess we've stepped into its territory.
What's it doing!?
It's pierced the pillar with its tusks!
It's infusing the rocks with aether!
It's trying something different!
Careful!
Is it gathering power?
Is it gathering power?
We have to dodge!
An easy win!
So the facility is still here...
What kind of research did they do here?
A remote facility with a secret purpose...
Hardly any signs there was ever a village here...
