Bound for the Isle of Haam? You look like the ones Master Fourchenault told me to expect.
If you're ready to depart, then so am I. Just say the word.
Is something the matter?
I did recruit one other to our party, but he is late to arrive...
Forgive me my delay.
Thancred! 'Tis good to see you.
If it isn't Varshahn. They do grow up so quickly.
Urianger tells me we have a host of exciting new tribulations to face.
And you must be Zero. I've heard all about your derring-do in Garlemald. A pleasure.
Apart from strengthening our company with his redoubtable skill at arms, Thancred may also serve as a mentor in those matters that trouble thee.
I speak of the intangible forces which bring souls together. Thancred is possessed of experience both unique and insightful that I am sure he would gladly share with thee. Thou needst but ask.
So you know, the isle's hemmed in by drift ice all year round. I'll bring you as close to the shore as possible, but you'll have to walk the rest of the way.
Social struggles aside, Zero seems more than capable of handling herself. Still, I shall aid her in what capacity I can.
He does not strike me as the mentoring sort...
Naught remaineth to bar us from the Isle of Haam. Let us set sail forthwith.
No matter what, we must return to the void. The acquisition of this aether is but the first step.
Let's get moving.
That building certainly looks the part.
A Sharlayan facility, and no mistake.
What is that?
Lyngbakr, dread beast of the seas.
Lyngbakr, dread beast of the seas.
Mine ears yet ring...
Troublesome creature.
A convenient mode of transport, that.
Such lines are installed throughout the isle, I believe.
The isle hath effected a curious change upon yonder golems.
There's such a thing as too much aether.
That was rather too high for comfort, I must confess...
That aether should crystallize upon its very body...
Just another beast in the end.
“Just another”...
Impressive...
I suppose we aim for that massive geyser?
Aye, there lieth our destination.
A squid? Nay...an octopus.
Nothing to it.
Had it been squid, we might have taken some for Estinien.
Mayhap these waters are connected to the sea.
Seems the geyser is just beyond.
Much obliged for clearin' the way! We'll get to work at once!
Fillin' these up will take a good while. I'd appreciate it if you stood watch till we've finished.
I ain't gettin' chewed to chum by some aether-bloated bugger!
Oh, by the by.
Where were you plannin' on puttin' these to use? We could deliver 'em by airship, see─provided it ain't too far.
We would need them transported to Garlemald─to the Tower of Babil.
Ahh, that's a long old journey... Too long for a direct flight. Tell you what: we'll send 'em over with the scheduled shipment of provisions headed that way.
I'll make the arrangements as soon as we get back. Save some poor chocobos havin' to drag this lot through the snow.
You have our thanks. We shall not forget your generosity.
Everything seems to be proceeding apace. I daresay you would've been fine without me.
Why would you say such a thing?
You are not bound by contract or the threat of force, and you gain no advantage by devaluing your own contribution.
Yet you must be bound by something to speak thus. What is it?
What binds me... Hmm.
A belief, I suppose. Born of our shared struggles.
No matter where my comrades go, I have faith they will be fine. For I know that they will walk their chosen path as surely as I walk mine.
I trust them, in short─trite though it may sound.
Trust...
I remember the word. How long has it been since last I used it?
It had no place in my dealings. Not with other voidsent, and certainly not with Zenos. Not even in the time before Darkness engulfed the world...
Full often did memoriates betray their own, corrupted by the very power they wielded. You could trust no one but yourself.
Alone we fought, and alone we fell.
I wouldn't know how to trust.
Is there some trick to it?
Just stay close to this one. You'll learn in no time.
Aye, absolutely fine.
I confess, I thought thou mightst have more words of counsel to offer.
Oh, she'll soon get the hang of it─even without my help. After our work here is done, I'll see myself back to the shadows.
But before that... I take it you've heard as well?
Indeed. The client seeketh Archons, and 'twould seem our extensive travels and neutrality make us prime candidates.
Well, assuming we take on the request, I suspect I'll be stuck with you again. Don't let me down, hm?
By simply staying close to you, will I really learn about trust?
Zero's straight as an arrow, isn't she? A refreshing contrast to our more circuitous company.
We are truly indebted to Kokkol. I must invite him to Radz-at-Han as a guest of honor.
To not only allow us use of the tanks, but to arrange their transportation to Garlemald besides... Blessed are we to count Kokkol among our allies.
Unto thee we must also give thanks, Thancred, for coming to our aid on such short notice.
Please, you know I'm always happy to help. Don't hesitate to call on me again.
Till next time.
With the tanks' transportation thus arranged, our first task is complete.
We may now turn our attention to the second.
To wit, obtaining the blessing of the Ilsabard contingent to use the Tower of Babil to channel energy unto the moon.
Our destination is Camp Broken Glass, where we may present our petition to Commander Lucia.
Here we are again...
Glad am I to hear that Garlemald's restoration proceedeth apace, and the people no longer want for warmth. Be that as it may, there is no substitute for appropriate garments in such frigid climes, as I can personally attest...
Per Y'shtola's advice, I have changed into clothing more suited to these surrounds. The better to blend in. ...I hope this will suffice.
You are, as ever, welcome, Forename. I do not believe I have met all your comrades...?
Forename. Allow me to personally thank you for your assistance during the recent voidsent incursion. Your actions saved many.
What brings you here today?
Pray forgive us for not sending word in advance, Commander, but we seek your cooperation in a matter of great import...
Indeed... We appreciate you consulting with us instead of taking unilateral action.
'Tis no simple matter to activate the Tower of Babil, and I speak not only of the technological challenges.
Personally, I think we must consider the emotional impact of such an action above all else.
Pending a more official name, we refer to those who remain here as the Garlean community.
As you would expect, they are predominantly native Garleans─most of whom are uncomfortable with aetherial manipulation.
To compound matters, the trauma inflicted by Anima is still fresh. If the tower were to suddenly light up again, it is like to cause distress and reopen old wounds.
Better that than facing a mass invasion by Golbez and his voidsent hordes, surely.
Of course. We acknowledge the gravity of the situation, as well as the promised bloodshed should we fail to act.
Yet, even were we to convey your warning to the public, many simply do not understand the workings of magic or the rift. They will struggle to comprehend why they must be forced to relive personal horrors for the sake of something they cannot imagine.
What's there to imagine? Haven't these people seen voidsent with their own eyes?
...Let us suppose you encounter someone who is freezing in this cold. A natural thing to do might be to make them a fire, yes?
But what if that person's sole experience with fire was being badly burned by it, and they harbored an acute fear?
Despite the benefits─nay, the necessity─of the warmth you offer, they may flee on instinct. Or worse, misinterpret your actions for aggression and lash out.
So like the fire that torments this individual, the Tower of Babil torments the people of Garlemald...
...Yet we cannot afford to falter here. We must find a way to help them overcome their fear.
I agree. To that end, the contingent will assist however we can.
We should speak with Alphinaud and Alisaie. With the rapport they have established with the Garlean people, I daresay they can provide us with valuable insights.
In the meantime, Urianger, might I ask that you remain here to oversee the technical aspects of the tower's activation?
Full faith have I that you will win over the Garlean populace. In the meantime, I shall see to it that all is in readiness with the tower.
I will relay the particulars of your endeavor to members of the contingent. Rest assured we will do our best to assist you.
If truth be told, had you approached us with your petition earlier, we are like to have declined it. The situation was simply too precarious.
But the people have begun to pull themselves up, and I dare to hope they will lend an ear to your words.
I knew you wouldn't be able to stay away!
I have taken the liberty of explaining our objective.
Of all the things...
To dread fire even when one is freezing. To become a prisoner of one's fear. 'Tis a fate to which voidsent too can succumb, aye...
I am glad to see you, Forename. Vrtra has explained our present dilemma.
'Tis no unfounded concern that the Garleans might take poorly to the reactivation of the Tower of Babil.
That's putting it mildly. Many would be up in arms over it.
Trust in the Ilsabard contingent is fragile enough. We need to tread lightly, or we risk jeopardizing everything we've achieved.
“Trust” again...
Well, it seems to me there's naught for it but to speak with the people.
Rather than harping on about the necessity of the plan, we need to lend an ear to their concerns. Then, perhaps, we can begin working towards a compromise.
In that case, I'll take you to meet the community leaders. They're at a station called Senatus, near the Senaculum Imperialis.
I would be honored to speak with them...though it would be prudent to learn where people elsewhere stand as well. But that I will leave to the others─save Zero. Might you accompany me?
I'm sure those in Tapper's Den will have their own opinions. Alphinaud, if I may drag you along?
Tertium, we leave to you. You are no stranger to the people here, so it should take little prodding to convince them to speak freely.
Then it's settled. Once you've learned what you can, let's all meet in Forum Solius, where we'll have what I hope is a productive discussion.
