Netherlings come to free prisoner! Spread word like thunder, and cast them into cloud sea!
Netherlings slink away like guileful gaelicats! Rally, warriors of Gundu! Let none escape!
Help has arrived, Forename!
Haurchefant, is that you!? Thank heavens! Get us out of here!
Keep Emmanellain safe, Forename! We will hold them off!
Reinforcements!?
Anger of Honu, chief of mighty Vundu, roils like blackest storm clouds!
Offer netherlings to the White! Cloud sea swells and He comes!
The White! The White! Mighty Bismarck, Lord of the Mists!
A flying whale!? By the Fury, i-it's a primal!
We must away!
Damn!
Bloody typical... All right─we're going in!
Aye aye, chief!
All aboard!
The gods only know what might've happened had we not been around to save you... No need for thanks, though. It's not as if you haven't done the same for us on a few previous occasions. All right, more than a few.
'Twas but blind chance that brought us together this time, in case you were wondering. The Holy See has petitioned the Ironworks for assistance with this creation of theirs, the Protector. Apparently, they just can't seem to get her flying.
Anyway, I came to Camp Cloudtop to cast an eye over the ship, only to learn that you had arrived some few days before with an Ishgardian lordling in tow.
"Small world!“ I thought─just as said lordling's manservant skittered into view, babbling about his master having been captured and you risking all to rescue him. And the rest, as they say, is history.
Right, well, I hate to cut short our reunion, but I am here on business after all, and the boys are already hard at work. Don't worry, old friend─we'll speak again soon, I promise.
Very well, I admit it: it was an incredibly harrowing experience. I could very well have died, you know! Me! Dead!
On the other hand, by risking life and limb in the line of duty, I did succeed in uncovering the existence of a new primal. And that, old girl, is no small feat!
I have made an historic discovery─a fact even Lady Laniaitte will have no choice but to acknowledge! Yeeesss, I am rather looking forward to basking in the sunshine of her praise. Speaking of which─isn't it time we made our triumphant return?
Praise Halone, I feared the worst! What happened out there?
A primal!? Are you sure!?
Yet...now that I think on it, this Bismarck is reminiscent of the white whale of Vanu legend─a massive creature said to “swim” in the Sea of Clouds.
From what I have learned of comparable summonings, the presence of the Vanu's god would certainly explain the sudden change in their behavior toward the people of Camp Cloudtop.
Ah, you mean to say that they have fallen under the primal's influence? I recall reading of such things in the documents provided by Master Alphinaud...
Aren't we forgetting something important, Lady Laniaitte? A little recognition for the hero of the hour? A few choice expressions of gratitude, respect, admiration, and so on...?
...Why yes. You are right, of course. Mistress Surname deserves all that and more for having risked her life to rescue such an...esteemed personage.
Well, if there is naught else to discuss, I would depart for Ishgard forthwith. The Holy See and the Temple Knights must be informed of this new threat without delay.
But of course.Mistress Surname, you have done more than enough here. Pray return to Ishgard with Lord Haurchefant and give my warmest regards to the count.
So that's it, then? No more forays into enemy territory? Very well, I can see my services are no longer needed. Take care, Lady Laniaitte. May our next meeting take place under more...felicitous circumstances.
All's well that ends well, eh? To the airship landing, then! We can speak on the journey home.
I confess, I have always been rather fond of airship travel. The chill of the wind upon your face, the warmth of the blood pumping in your veins from the excitement...! I find the whole experience indescribably invigorating!
Or mayhap it is simply the joy of having cheated death yet again!? Ha ha! In any event, I must make for the Congregation and inform Ser Aymeric of all that has occurred.
Emmanellain should have returned to the manor by now. Why not go and see if he has recovered from his ordeal?
Oh, it's you, Forename...<whimper> Gods, did he have to strike me so hard?
Father, he...he did not approve of how I handled matters in Camp Cloudtop─how I endangered the lives of others through my own...<sniff>...recklessness and incompetence.
It's not easy playing the hero, is it...
Let us begin anew, Mistress Surname. I am Ser Artoirel de Fortemps, eldest son of Count Edmont de Fortemps.
You will forgive me my outburst, I hope. I meant no disrespect. I merely consider myself equal to the duties entrusted to me...unlike some.
...Haurchefant has spoken of you often. If you are even half the woman he claims, I shall be glad to have you at my side.
To the matter at hand, then: we will be assisting my esteemed compatriots of houses Durendaire and Dzemael.
You are aware of our friendly rivalry, I take it? Aye, well, suffice it to say, the prospect of assisting said houses does not fill me with joy.
However, it is the will of the Holy See that we set aside our differences at this crucial juncture. But we shall speak more of that anon.
First, we must needs secure transport to Falcon's Nest. Let us make for the chocobo stables in Foundation.
