This is as far as you go, Forename!You and your ridiculous name won't make it past me, kupo!
Kupopo... That's enough... You've made your point.This isn't a fight to the death, kupo...
I didn't expect to face the moogles...
I pray they aren't too badly hurt.
<pant> The air is rather thin this high up...
It isn't a race, so let us pace ourselves.
The wyrm depicted on yonder crest...
Neither Hraesvelgr nor Nidhogg. It could only be Ratatoskr.
A winged horse...and an enormous one at that!
There isn't much room to maneuver. Have care!
That creature was truly fearsome in motion...
Thankfully we managed to rein it in.
Good heavens, what a majestic place...
I daresay we are come to Ratatoskr's sanctuary.
Thou hast weathered my trial thus far...but I am not convinced.I will try thy limits.
We will win you over, Hraesvelgr. Mark my words.
What awaits, I wonder...
Nidhogg will spare thee no clemency.And thus neither must I.
Pray watch over us, Ysayle!
Come, warrior. Show me what strength doth remain in thy frail mortal shell!
All that I have, I shall bring to bear!
The sky is the domain of dragons.How wilt thou contend with such mastery?
Thou art formidable...But canst thou endure until the bitter end?
Fight on, warrior! Press thy attack!
...Thy resolve hath withstood my scrutiny.Mayhap there is hope to be had in one such as thee...
Even bereft of an eye, my brood-brother was a fearsome foe indeed.
But having tasted thy strength firsthand, I do begin to see how thou didst bring him low. Hydaelyn chooseth Her servants well.
Very well. I shall trust in the seed of man one last time. By thy deeds shall the flickering hope that lingereth yet within my heart be kindled anew...or extinguished forever.
That you yet stand is ready proof of your determination, mortals.
Let us fight as allies, then, and together banish my brood-brother's vengeful shade. On my oath, the wrath that once was Nidhogg shall meet its end!
This I swear on the memory of my beloved Shiva, and on the soul of lost Ysayle...
Oh...ohhh... Oh, my poor ribs... That was a painful reminder of a great wyrm's might...
And had he truly meant us harm, we would not be standing here now. Plainly, his intent was to teach. His onslaught forced me to recall my training─about the speed of the dragon, his balance, his blind spots... It was, in short, a very thorough lesson.
Ow-ow-ow-ow-ow...kupo. Forename, let me begin by congratulating you on the completion of your trial.
For one with a name more befitting a jester, you fight with the savagery of a rabid demon.
Do you see how my wings are kinked? Even my pom aches! After this drubbing, I fear my loyal subjects will have to bear the load of my personal chores for quite some time, kupo. Possibly indefinitely.
What!? When I told you about Forename's trial, I didn't mean for the rest of us to suffer...
...That's triple shifts for you, Moghan.
<splutter> Triple!? But that's not fair!!!There's no justice, kupo... None at all!
Our negotiations proved rather more strenuous than I had anticipated, but the results seem well worth the effort.
The battle was indeed hard-won. Thank you, my friends─I would never have earned Hraesvelgr's cooperation had you not seen fit to grant me yours.
'Twas your stalwart heroism that moved the heart of the great wyrm at the last. Any gratitude I can offer is but poor reward for your continued service to Ishgard.
'Twould seem our final reckoning with the dread wyrm is at hand. I only wish we had some inkling as to when he means to strike.
Oh gods!
The cry heraldeth his coming. Nidhogg's shade hath taken wing.
It has begun. We must away to Ishgard!
Ishgard will not last long against Nidhogg and his Horde. We must away!
Know you, then, what this roar portendeth?
Aye. I must return to my city without delay.
Then we shall lend you our wings. Let us meet with Nidhogg on the field of battle, and together bring an end to his wrathful song.
Remember your training! We hold fast until the lord commander returns!
Ugh... We must hold...
Reinforcements!By the Fury... That one is the size of Nidhogg!
Lord Commander!
You are late, Warrior of Light!
Wherefore standest thou with these vermin, Brother?
Abandon this war, shade.
The suffering thou sowest serveth no end. The traitors' progeny have learned of their forefathers' betrayal, and seek now to make amends with our kind.
Never shall our grief be assuaged nor our loss forgotten, but reconciliation may yet halt the spread of this plague of enmity. Forsake thy vengeance and be at peace.
What soft-headed ramblings are these? Thy dalliance with that vile maid hath robbed thee of thy wits! Mayhap her cloying perfume hath made thee forget the stench of our brood-sister's lifeblood!
Thou darest speak thus of my beloved!?
Ah! So the flames of rage may yet be kindled! I feared thy heart's fire had long since gone out. But waste not thy fury on words, Brother─thou shalt have need of it for the battle!
Guh!
Thou art weak, Hraesvelgr─a slithering wyrm who fawneth on the vermin who should rightly be his prey. For a thousand years have I fought without cease─and thou didst think to prevail against me!
Glory not in thy victory, shade. The battle...is not yet won. My power─and my hope─have I entrusted to another...
Thine eye! What hast thou done!?
Fool! Thou wouldst trust a mortal with thy strength!?
I know thee... 'Twas thou who didst intrude upon my lair and best the half of me. But now I am whole, and naught in creation shall deny me my vengeance!
Wriggling maggots! I shall grind you to paste in my jaws!
Come, my children!Claim the vengeance that is rightfully yours!
Look upon the fool who dared embrace my power!Witness the darkened wings that beat about his shriveled soul!
Champions of man! Hearken to my fury!
Thy final verse is sung!
Thou hast survived my song...Curse thee and thine eye, Hraesvelgr!
Brood-brother, thou hast doomed me...But if I must meet mine end, then all shall burn upon my pyre!
Slain twice by mortal hands...
Estinien!
Is this...to be...mine end?
Nay... I will not allow it... I am of the first brood... I am vengeance incarnate... I am Nidhogg!
Thou shalt die by my hand!
This is not your hand, wyrm!
Thou...wilt...obey!
I would ask one last favor of you, Warrior of Light... Finish me─now, while I have the beast subdued!
You waste your time. Kill me! It is the only way! Ending Nidhogg...will be my final duty...
No! You can't die like this! I won't let you!
Undone by mortal will. Whither now...?
The eyes! Cast them into the abyss!
He lives. Ah, Estinien, my ill-fated friend...
Lucia! Summon the healers! I want them ready to receive him!
At once, Lord Commander!
Allow me to do this much, at least...
The Horde have sensed the fall of their master, and scattered to the winds.
You have my gratitude, Hraesvelgr. Your deeds this day have saved a great many lives.
Then our alliance hath served its purpose.
Thou didst wield the power I granted thee well. 'Twas thine own skill and not mine eye which earned thee victory.
I wish thy companion a swift recovery. Fare you well, children of man.
The battle is won. We can do no more for Estinien now than bear him home and wish him well, even as Hraesvelgr did. The rest we must trust to the hands of the healers and the grace of the gods.
Through the haze of pain, I swear I sensed─ But no. The past is done, and we must look to the future. At long last, Nidhogg is gone, his foul spirit cast out once and for all. I only pray that Estinien survives the ordeal...
Your battle with Nidhogg's shade will beget many an epic ballad, Forename, and rightly so. It was, without a doubt, one of your more epochal victories─though I must admit that I took greater joy in seeing you emerge from the experience unscathed.
...And not only for your own sake. Had you not been there to aid me, those infernal eyes would still be fused to Estinien's mail...
Yet even with Nidhogg gone, I cannot help but wonder how much of our friend remains... Let us pay a visit to Lucia, and beg news of his condition.
Forename, Master Alphinaud...my honored friends... As if winning Hraesvelgr to our cause were not enough, you took it upon yourselves to rid us of his brood-brother... I know not how to thank you.
My own contribution was hardly noteworthy. The true saviors of the day were Forename and Estinien. One triumphed over Nidhogg's shade through strength of arms and the other through strength of will.
...And speaking of Estinien, what news of his recovery?
The Azure Dragoon was conveyed to the infirmary, where he now resides under the care of our hospitalier captain. I am told he has yet to regain consciousness.
But as you know, Estinien's mind and body were held hostage for many days. We must be patient, and allow the process of healing to begin. In the meantime, you would do well to rest and recover from your own ordeals.
But surely─
Ser Aymeric is never long from Estinien's bedside, and will send word the moment there are any developments. Now, if I have satisfied your concerns, I believe Lord Edmont and his sons are most eager to celebrate your return.
...Very well, First Commander.
Come, Forename─'twould seem that we are awaited at Fortemps Manor.
Well come, Mistress Surname. Shall I show you inside the manor?
The heroes of the hour return!
We but did our duty, my lord. It was the memories of fallen friends and not our heroism which saw us through at the last.
I gave every onze of my strength, but mine efforts would have counted for naught had the Warrior of Light not arrived to challenge the great wyrm. As a sworn knight of Ishgard, I had hoped to do more for my city...
Well, we cannot all be heroes, dear brother. Let us put away our pride for a moment, and revel in the valiant deeds of our comrade! For your sterling service to Ishgard, we salute you!
And while we're on the subject of valiant deeds, I believe I myself have earned some small measure of recognition: under my watchful command, the ballistas of the outer ward struck down a veritable swarm of Dravanian invaders.
My lord's command was certainly watchful. He bravely watched as the siege crews took aim, and continued to watch as countless wyverns met their end. Indeed, the ward's defenders proved so well drilled that my lord had little occasion to stop watching.
There will be time enough to determine who is most deserving of recognition later. Our friends are doubtless weary from their exertions.
I had chambers prepared in expectation of your return. You are welcome to retire at your leisure.
I am most grateful for your hospitality, my lord, but I believe I shall pay a visit to the Temple Knights' infirmary. Pray excuse me.
How Master Alphinaud has grown. The plight of his stricken brother-in-arms pains him more than his own hurts.
...In which respect, he has come to resemble you, Warrior of Light. Go then─visit the Azure Dragoon, and grant him what comfort you may.
Forename, my friend. What can I do for the savior of Ishgard?...You seek Master Alphinaud? Ah. He came to relieve me of my vigil a short while ago.
When he begged to sit at Estinien's side, I could not well refuse him.
Though he would sooner faint than admit it, the boy must be exhausted by Hraesvelgr's trial and all that followed...Estinien is blessed to have such devoted comrades.
My own friendship with Estinien began some ten years past, shortly after we joined the Temple Knights...
I learned his name soon enough, but Estinien barely registered my existence. I was less a fellow recruit, and more a shadow which occasionally darkened his path.
And so I might have remained, had fate not seen fit to intervene. While out on patrol, our company was set upon by a dragon, and we were the only two to survive. The experience forged a bond between us, as such life-threatening situations are wont to do.
Despite our friendship, he remained an intense and solitary youth, wholly obsessed with claiming vengeance against Nidhogg. Revenge was ever at the forefront of his mind─revenge for the death of his parents, and revenge for his younger brother.
I would venture that in Alphinaud he sees something of his lost sibling.
And in the ungentle chidings of Estinien, Alphinaud has found the elder brother he never had.
Truth be told, Estinien's tactless observations have saved me from disaster more than once, and I can well understand Alphinaud's affection for him. He is a friend for whom I would gladly─
