My arm. Argh, it's killing me...!
Everything's going to be all right now...
Damn it all...! Is there truly nothing to be done!?
Try as we might, any words of comfort we may offer are like to fall on deaf ears.
We are but strangers from foreign lands, perhaps in their eyes the very cause of their suffering to begin with. Nevertheless, we mustn't give up.
...Why?
This is where it happened...
...Best not to dwell on it. Not when there's work to be done.
It was only ever a dream, wasn't it. To think we could reclaim it. Rebuild it all ourselves...
Before this all began...I sent my wife and daughter away to the provinces...
If there's a chance I might see them again, I'll take it. So take me. Take me with you...please.
I can walk, I think. Just give me a few more moments...
Well...got the aetheryte sorted in the end. All it took was a few adjustments, and now it works as well as it ever did...
From what I can tell, the one in Laterum is also functioning as normal. That's where you lot are staying, isn't it?
Now that most of us are packing up and leaving this place, I reckon there'll be more use for me and my skills over at your camp...
Since the aetheryte's functioning again, why not give it a try? Be a waste if no one did...
Ah...it's you. The one who treated me with such kindness...
I heard from the others that you're not from around here... Heh...I thought you were one of us. Not that it makes much difference now.
Purebloods, migrants, savages... After a while the words start to lose meaning...until all you're left with is anger and fear and hate and I'm...I'm too tired...
If you and yours have come to offer aid, I'd be glad to accept.
I don't believe I asked you your name...
Forename Surname... Thank you. I will remember it... Always.
We have much to discuss.
Our rescue, the attack on Camp Broken Glass...
...What we'd hoped to talk about with Quintus...
But all of that can wait. More urgent matters demand our attention.
Are any of the refugees willing to come to our camp?
Thank the Twelve. Thank the Twelve...
You and I should go first and secure the route back to Camp Broken Glass.
With all the creatures and tempered skulking about, I expect we'll have our hands full.
This should come in handy. Conqueror's Chain, courtesy of our Lominsan friends. I'd save it for the tempered, though.
I'll mark a few points that need surveying on your map. Once you've taken care of the riffraff, we'll meet back at our camp.
I will stay with the refugees and do what I can to protect them.
While I have no doubt that you and Thancred will do a fine job clearing a path, we must be ever vigilant for threats that may have slipped the net.
While I have no doubt that you and Thancred will do a fine job clearing a path, we must be ever vigilant for threats that may have slipped the net.
Ah, there you are.
As expected, I ran into a few beasts who went down without much of a fight. The tempered proved somewhat troublesome, but those chains should keep them under control until our allies take them into custody.
With that taken care of, I'm to gather a few supplies and then return to the station.
While I see to that, would you mind apprising Lucia of our progress?
As it happens, I have some rather pertinent information from our recent scouting forays, but I'll save that for later. First things first, and all that.0
Welcome back. I hope they haven't been working you too hard...
Ah, Forename. I was informed of Quintus's suicide... It must have come as a great shock to his men.
What of the refugees? I'm told some were receptive to our proposal, but I would hear your firsthand account.
That so many did not hesitate to accept proves how desperate their situation has become. We'll do our best to make them feel welcome.
The troops who participated in the ambush are no exception. They will be afforded the same treatment as any other refugees, perfidy notwithstanding. After all, even if I wanted to make an example of them, there's no one left to learn from it.
We will tell our allies that these soldiers were acting under the direct orders of their legatus, and that following his suicide, they offered a full and unconditional surrender.
Perhaps Quintus thought that had he lived, he would be tried as a war criminal, and his men punished with him. Perhaps, by taking his own life, he hoped to absolve them of any culpability. Or perhaps, like too many others, he was a true believer to the end.
Who can say. I didn't know the man, or his heart. His reasons, noble or otherwise, died with him, and it falls to us to clean up the mess...
I see that you're still standing. Might I convince you to sit down? ...No, I thought not.
I assume you're curious about how matters have progressed here in your absence. Quite well, as it happens.
Now that we've procured ceruleum from Tapper's Den, the recently repaired heaters can provide much-needed warmth.
Furthermore, we've prepared sufficient food for everyone. Those from Tertium shall find a hot meal waiting upon their arrival.
There's one for you, so go ahead and get some well-earned rest. I believe that we're capable of wielding a ladle or two without your assistance.
On your way, might I ask you to seek out Y'shtola? She was but recently attending to the wounded, but she's meant to be taking a rest herself. See that she is.
Were it not for you, Alphinaud, and Alisaie, the people of Tertium may well have perished. Though they may not realize it yet, they owe you their lives.
Yes, yes, I have been taking proper breaks and imbibing sufficient water. But what of the Warrior of Light? You and the twins have an established history of reckless disregard for your own well-being.
We're all fortunate that none of you landed yourselves in my care. I've already quite enough to deal with, between the tempered and the Ist's wounded.
Alas, though I can mend their bodies, the toll their experiences have taken on their hearts and minds is another matter altogether.
For their sakes, we mustn't waver─but nor must we rush ahead in eagerness to see the day won, and in so doing invite disaster...
Is that all of them?
The last of those who agreed to join us, yes.
We left heaters and provisions for those who wished to stay behind. They won't last forever, but hopefully they'll last long enough.
For now, I think everyone's earned a rest.
We'll see to those in need of medical attention, so take the others with you and get yourselves some hot soup.
Warmth, at last...
Marvelous, isn't it?
All thanks to the resourceful machinists of Ishgard, I might add. On their behalf, I bid you warm yourself to your heart's content!
Hold on. Your people might've scribbled a few things on a piece of parchment, but it was our Lominsan smiths that put the bloody things together.
Well, be that as it may...we single-handedly got the interior heating up and running again, didn't we?
The hells you did! We were there every step of the way!
“We”!? You barely raised a finger to help, you ale-sodden reprobate!
I did a damn sight more than you, you lily-livered bilge rat!
Take that back!
Make me!
I will not stoop to your level!
