Oh, whatever will I do now?
Ciriatto... This is rather unexpected. Where is Farfarello?

Farfarello...isn't here anymore. He's...left. Y-Yes, that's right!
Left? That doesn't sound like him at all.
W-Well, he's gone, all right? Wh-What more do you want me to say?
And off he flees, as he is wont to do.
But something about this doesn't sit well with me...
What do you make of Ciriatto's behavior?
I doubt it. Had he been threatened, we wouldn't have found him in one place.
No, he would run in circles until he could run no more. That's his nature.
So you think so too.
As he says, Farfarello is gone. But that is quite unusual.
As is the fact that Ciriatto, who was clearly frightened by something, chose not to flee but instead hid here, where Farfarello usually─
...No.
We must go after Ciriatto. Now.
I know Farfarello was our quarry, but Ciriatto's behavior troubles me. We must find him.
I-I don't have time for this... You'd best keep your distance if you know what's good for you!
Ciriatto, we need to talk.
Th-There's no time! The wind rises! We must flee!
The wind rises...? What is he talking about?
After him.
Uwaaah, the wind howls! Louder and louder!
What's gotten into you? What do you mean, the wind rises?
When the wind rises, she comes! Barbariccia!
Barba...riccia? Who in the world is that?
We must flee, all of us! There's no time!
I don't sense anything, but he seems convinced.
It's a dead end beyond. We'll corner him.
Ahhh, it's too late! The wind is already upon us!
We're doomed! There's nowhere to run!
What are you running from?
I-I already told you! Barbariccia, the archfiend of wind!
Archfiend, you say?
We will be devoured or forced to serve. To fight in the crusade. But it makes no difference. In the end, all are eaten by her or her enemies.
I didn't want to fight anymore. That's why I fled and came here!
I see. That explains everything...almost.
I thought it was Farfarello who used to serve an archfiend. Not you.
Not you, who always ran at the first sign of trouble. You who now speak as though you were Barbariccia's minion. There's only one explanation...
Indeed, that would account for his uncharacteristic behavior.
So, is that the way of it? Did you devour Farfarello?
Tell me true, Ciriatto. You devoured Farfarello, didn't you?
And not just a portion of his aether, but his entire being.
...H-How did you know?
It wasn't only your behavior that felt strange.
You felt strange. As if there was more than you present.
Now, I don't believe you would've lost control. More likely it was at Farfarello's behest.
I can't hide anything from you...
I admit it. Farfarello didn't leave. I ate him.
He feared Barbariccia more than anything. Hated the endless fighting.
So he begged me to devour him, that he would never have to fight again.
Rather than an eternity of fighting, he chose a moment of pain...
For all the good it did. I can still hear his voice in my head. He's frightened, so very frightened...
When you're eaten, your essence is blended with that of your devourer. And though you have no control, your consciousness in part endures.
Were this a world where the wheel of life and death still turned, the soul wouldn't linger so stubbornly.
In time, it would return to the great flow.
But there's no such end here. No escape. All know this. In making his choice, Farfarello must have been desperate indeed.
And now that desperation has joined with Ciriatto's fear, driving him to act erratically.
This place will become a battlefield. We don't want to be eaten. Neither me nor Farfarello. But there's nowhere to go! Nowhere!
Then tell me about Barbariccia. I would know who it is we face.
It's too late. She's as good as here, and no one can escape her winds! No one!
B-Barbariccia... She is come!
And she's brought her domain with her.
The archfiend's after you and yours, I shouldn't doubt.
Perhaps you should go and find them. But be warned─whatever this is about, do not expect us to get involved.
I can't bear it... Eating and being eaten... I only want to be left in peace...
You and me both.
One of the archfiends approaches?
They must have been tracking our movements.
She's here!
Excellent. You've saved me the trouble of traveling to Troia.
So you're Barbariccia.
Mind your manners, mortal! My name is not to be spoken save in reverence and fear.
And what is this pitiful domain?
Pitiful wretches all. I will put you out of your misery!
Alas, poor Scarmiglione, and good riddance. Felled by outsiders in pursuit of what, pray tell?
A dragon─one who crossed to this world thousands of years ago. Know you aught of it?
A dragon, you say?
Hahaha... Ahahahaha!
My Lord Golbez is more clever than I realized. To let the prize live that it might lure more prey to us.
Very well. In gratitude and service, I shall devour every last mote of their souls.
Where is she? Where is Azdaja!?
Heh, you even share its scent. How curious...and irresistible!
If you think us easy prey, you're wrong.
Unlike Scarmiglione, I need not skulk in shadow to claim what is mine.
If you would know about the dragon you seek, then enter into my domain.
You may flee instead if you wish─if the fate of the sorry lot here is of no concern to you. One way or another, I will have satisfaction.
What's the plan, then?
Indeed, Yet she will have the upper hand in her domain. We must be no less than fully prepared.
Aye, that we would. Even so, we don't have any intention of turning tail now, do we?
We find her and get our answers. Will you be joining us, Zero?
You may be easily goaded into accepting her challenge, but my curiosity is not so insatiable as to cloud my judgment.
Nevertheless, if you are desperate for my aid...you know my price.
I shall pay it.
So long as you leave me strength enough to see my sister home, you may take as much as you wish.
And lest you forget, mine is no ordinary aether. Barbariccia too recognized its potency.
...Very well. We have a bargain.
Just you wait, Barbariccia. I will have answers from you yet...
I have no intention of demanding anyone's aether until afterwards. Weakening you now would only reduce my chances of getting paid.
What little I learned in your absence did not pertain to the archfiends. That discussion can wait until after we've tended to Barbariccia.
The less time we give the enemy to prepare, the better. If everyone is ready, then let us set forth.
Indeed. And yet...my heart weighs heavy for those Barbariccia struck down. Were it not for us, she would not have come here.
Should you require a moment, Zero...
For what? Barbariccia took what she could. She was wise to strike quickly─as we would be.
Agreed. This is no time for sentiment. Only the battle matters now.
Scarmiglione possessed the power of regeneration. Let us see what Barbariccia can do with her winds.
A word of warning. Barbariccia spoke as if she would give us answers if we were to defeat her.
But even assuming she'll talk─which I doubt─I trust I needn't tell you how foolish it is to give an archfiend a second chance. Best to seal her away at the earliest opportunity.
If you wish to peer into her past, the memoria will suffice.
Well then, you had better hope it favors you when the time comes.
You do that. And if you fail, well...you'll just have to search elsewhere for answers.
Rest assured this won't be our last opportunity to learn about Azdaja.
If another archfiend were to fall, Golbez would surely be compelled to respond.
We need only wait for our quarry to come to us.
Indeed. If our struggles with Scarmiglione taught us aught, 'tis that we must hold nothing back when facing an archfiend.
Let us heed Zero's advice and seal her away at the earliest opportunity.
If we're all in agreement, then let us be off. We travel by nisroch.
To transform a voidsent into memoria, we must first drain them of their aether. To wit, we must wound her gravely.
Barbariccia will use every advantage she has. Traps, ambushes─we must be prepared for all that and more.
This is not the first trial we have faced since coming to this world. Nor will it be the last. But with you all beside me, I am confident we will prevail. So come, let us sally forth!
Scarmiglione was the archfiend of earth, while Barbariccia is of the wind. In this world given to Darkness, I wonder what significance their elemental titles hold.
You're not the only ones who can ride the wind!
Leave these ones to us!
Aye! See to Barbariccia!
Come! Give yourselves to my scouring winds that I may feast upon your essence!
Such rich, exquisite aether...
My hair shimmers with anticipation!
On your guard!
Have at you!
My locks are as the wind...
My locks are as the wind...
Supple, strong, and free!
Ah, a fair wind blows!
You feel it too, do you not?
You've done well to last this long...
But the battle has only just begun!
I'll slaughter you all!
Dodge this if you can!
I'll make it quick!
Don't underestimate me!
Feel my fury!
Know your place!
You can't escape the storm!
I'll break your every bone!
Begone from my sight!
The insolence!
No... I will not be denied...
There's still time... With more of the dragon's aether, I can yet...
You're finished.
Damn it aaaaaall!
I see you've bested Barbariccia. Well done.
Her minions, too, are all crystallized or scattered. The day is ours.
What of my sister? Tell me you learned something about Azdaja!
So the archfiend and her crystal yielded naught...
Our efforts have not been entirely fruitless.
We have deprived your sister's captor of another powerful champion. With Zero, we may yet challenge Golbez and his minions.
Indeed, we could not have come this far without your aid. Thank you, Zero.
I but fulfilled my part of the bargain. And now I will have my...my...
Her aether is nearly spent. Perhaps unsurprising given how much power she used.
I wouldn't want to face another archfiend without her. We should hurry back to Zero's domain.
Agreed. Eager though I am to continue, 'twould be unwise to risk our lives for the sake of haste.
Let us suspend the mission and tend to Zero.
Let us suspend the mission and tend to Zero.
Zero hasn't so much as stirred. Such power she must have expended...
In her present state, Zero is easy prey for other voidsent. We must be on our guard.
Though Zero remains unconscious, she appears otherwise fine.
...Insofar as I can discern, at any rate. Being part voidsent, her physiology may be rather different from ours. Let us observe her for a while as we discuss our next move.
Even those part voidsent require rest, I imagine. And her own abode seems as good a place as any.
Unlike the Source, however, there is scant ambient aether for her to draw upon here...
How long do you suppose she will remain this way?
I haven't the faintest inkling, nor can I say whether the aether we can afford to share will be enough to awaken her.
'Twould be best to take her back with us to the Source. There, she would be guaranteed all she requires.
Zero cannot give her consent, but it seems we have no choice. The alternative would be to leave her here, defenseless.
Should she later desire it, we can bring her home.
Forename, might I ask you to hold on to Barbariccia's memoria? It may yet serve a purpose.
Oh? What happened to her?
You have business with Zero?
We have a newcomer─a former minion of Barbariccia.
Let her know when she wakes, will you?
Barbariccia's minion...
Why not go and find this newcomer? So we have something to tell Zero, if nothing else.
Indeed...
May I trouble you to join me, Forename? With luck, we might learn something of Golbez.
When the leader falls, the minions pledge themselves to the enemy. There's no loyalty─only survival.
Worry not, we will keep an eye on Zero. Go and meet this newcomer.
This appears to be the newcomer.
