You're with Master Fourchenault, yes? Just step inside the lift here.
From here, we proceed to the heart of Labyrinthos, and its most closely guarded secret─Thaumazein.
It marks the beginning and end of our efforts─whence we delved to seek audience with the star, and whence we will embark on our journey to the heavens.
This way, if you please.
I bid you welcome to Thaumazein. Direct your attention toward its center to behold the ark over which we have long labored.
As you can see, 'twas designed as a medium-sized craft, the better to reduce fuel consumption. Miniaturizing magicks have been applied to its interior to ensure that the thrust-to-weight ratio does not place too great a limitation on its freight capacity.
The aetherburner, as you know, has been removed for further modification, but we shall reattach it soon enough.
I have received word that Kokkol and several of your allies are working on it with an intense fervor.
They are sure to see it done. 'Twas by their expertise that many a prior disaster was averted.
If anything, I fear they will not afford us much time for speaking with Hydaelyn ere they finish...
Point taken. Let us move on. I must warn you again, however, that even with the benefit of our device, to treat with Her is not a simple feat.
I can well imagine the zeal with which they're working on the aetherburner, and all I can say is that I'm glad we have something to do other than get in their way.
Once it's ready, we'll see to it that the ship is put to good use!
'Twould seem enchantments most advanced have been woven into the ship's very bones. Wilfsunn and Bloewyda were doubtless called upon for their expertise in teleportation magicks...
It was the Allagans who first combined the mechanical and aetherial sciences into a revolutionary discipline.
Given that this ship is nothing short of a technological marvel in that precise vein, Allagan salvage should suit it well.
I doubt this is what Erenville meant when he said that there remains much we do not know, but I still can't believe everything that was hidden underneath the city this entire time.
You feel it too, don't you? The ship is impressive, but it pales in comparison to the vast primordial power beneath our feet...
We must learn of Hydaelyn's greater plan. We can only hope that She also knows the current location of Meteion...
...And we can do neither if we do not focus on whatever trial awaits us within.
To think how many generations labored for this end...and that we aim higher still.
We must spare no preparation─and that means speaking with Hydaelyn, no matter the cost.
If meeting Hydaelyn proves difficult even for the Forum, then perhaps I─
Oh, 'tis an unformed idea at this phase, I'm afraid. I will duly inform you if anything comes of it.
I have done what I can to impress upon you the gravity of what lies ahead.
Are you prepared?
We make for the lift at the center of this chamber. Come.
With the ship in the way, I didn't even notice this was here!
The aether here is more brilliant than I have ever seen.
As a means of communing with the heart of the star, 'tis disappointingly mechanical in design...
They must employ a full cohort of engineers just to maintain the lifts...
...Am I the only one feeling terribly nervous? Surely not.
This doesn't strike me as particularly dangerous, unless one is afraid of lifts.
I doubt there's anything worth worrying over. Not for Hydaelyn's champion, at any rate.
I should hope that Master Fourchenault has more to share ere sending anyone stumbling into the aetherial sea.
As you all know, alongside our physical world exists an aetherial plane─what we refer to as the “aetherial sea.”
At the heart of the star, the physical and aetherial are one and the same. Thus, the deeper we go, the easier it becomes to pass between said planes.
We utilized this principle in constructing the Antitower, and once more here in Thaumazein.
No sooner did the Forum decide that an exodus from the star would be necessary than it began work on this facility.
Our work culminated in a device that allowed us to peer deeper into the aetherial sea than ever before, in search of Hydaelyn's ever-fainter echoes...
The Aitiascope.
And you communicate with Her through this device?
For a time, yes, but since the Seventh Umbral Calamity, it has been rare to hear even a whisper.
If you wish to reach Her, you must journey closer to the center of the star than we have ever dared, beyond the Aitiascope.
Even so, I make no guarantee that you will find Her. Nor of your safety─not so deep in the aetherial sea.
We understand. But if we are to deliver this world, we have no choice but to try.
...I know. I only wish we could do more than observe your progress from afar.
The Aitiascope's ocular lens, by which we may peer into the aetherial sea without placing ourselves at hazard, lies above us. Through it, we can watch and guide you.
In those swirling depths, there are pockets of aether so dense and turbulent that they can unravel one's soul. If we determine that you are at risk of coming into contact with such a pocket, we will recall you with teleportation magicks.
To that end, it would be best if one familiar with the composition of your souls remained here to assist in assessing said risk. Otherwise, there is an increased probability that we will extract you too early...or too late.
Please, allow me.
I have thought upon this much, and...in truth, I do not believe that I am fit to join you in the trials ahead.
The events at the Tower of Babil drained me, yes, but even before that, your capabilities far outstripped my own.
This is no time to have a weak link in our vanguard. No matter how much she may wish it were otherwise.
...If I assist in the manner that Master Fourchenault has laid out, however, I may still be of use.
Will you trust in me to do so?
I can think of none I'd trust more! Compared to all that effort you put into keeping us alive while our souls were in the First, preventing us from dissolving into aether on a single expedition ought to pose no challenge at all.
And even if we did, I expect you would hunt us down and restore us to health somehow.
You flatter me! But rest assured that I will be keeping a close eye on all of you.
There is one more thing...
Those in ages past referred to the aetherial sea as the “Underworld,” our final resting place.
In its embrace is memory washed away, leaving only the purity of one's soul...or so we believe.
Yet what of these memories? Few think to ask what becomes of them, cast adrift on aetherial tides.
Some theorize that they linger for some time─those associated with strong sentiment, in particular.
In those depths, memories of the departed may even coalesce around you, for hatred or for love.
Thus do I caution you to be wary─but also to have faith. Remember those who did gladly extend a hand to you, that they may lift you up once more.
Once you are below, you should proceed through the Aitiascope to the central observatory.
That is where the objective lens is located. We can manipulate it to direct an aetherial current deeper into the sea.
Though I shall assist you in every way possible, this is your journey to make. When you are ready, I bid you step forth.
I hope to guide you via linkpearl while you're inside, but given the density of the aether, I'm not sure how long the connection will hold.
Even if you can't hear me, however, be assured that I am watching over you.
I now understand why these facilities are so heavily guarded.
If it fell into the wrong hands, the wisdom of Hydaelyn could be dangerous, 'tis true...
However, that danger is naught compared to what would result should the commonfolk en masse venture into the aetherial sea unprepared─which they most certainly would, if they thought it would allow them to speak to the dead!
Once that secret got out, no rational argument could dissuade people from wanting to see their loved ones, no matter how ephemeral the meeting.
If some part of them remains in the aetherial sea, do you think...
...Forgive me. That's not why we're here. And no matter what happens, she'll always be with us─with Ryne, most of all.
She'd tell us to live for the here and now. To do what must be done. And we will.
I've seen more than enough death in my time. Friends, enemies...far too many to count.
Once, revenge was all I lived for. All that hate, all that anger...what good did it do?
None, that's what. Way I see it, there's no point living for the past. It's the present that needs protecting.
We have always tried to do the right thing...but we have not always been kind, nor merciful.
I should not be surprised if some few harbored resentment for us as they passed on...
We must face these truths, and meet them as they come.
I cannot help but think of those who were transformed into beasts.
Their aether dissolved into nothingness, their souls forever lost...
Yet I daresay Fandaniel still wanders the aetherial sea. As do ancients who gave rise to Zodiark, setting in motion so many cataclysmic events...
If there is a justice or morality at work that governs our fates, I do not know it. Nor do I think any man ever will.
Maybe our enemies are down there. But if we've beaten them once, we can beat them again.
I'm more concerned about our meeting with Hydaelyn. We may find our truth, but what if...
...No, I would rather not think on it. Let us move on.
If Hydaelyn be unwilling or unable to divulge Meteion's location, I shall see our comrades delivered to the moon, one and all.
I pray, however, that this eventuality doth not come to pass.
While even a sliver of hope remaineth, we must needs fight on.
All seems in order with the lens... And I trust you can hear me?
Those things are pure malcontent! The residue of lives unfulfilled.
Those things are pure malcontent! The residue of lives unfulfilled.
This aether... Papalymo...
His will, given form.
Try as you might to conceal it, you've always worried overmuch.
Don't fret about Lyse, either─she's just fine.
