<sigh> The Archons have scarcely returned, and already Sister is at it again... However this plays out, I pity the newcomer...
When I was tasked with holding the fort, the silence of the place was unnerving at times. Strange to say that it is amidst this ceaseless clamor that I feel most at peace.
Oh, greetings, Forename. Come to look in on our friends?
Rest assured, everyone is quite well. I've been keeping a close eye on them, and have satisfied myself that they are all in fine health.
As a matter of fact, they're just about to convene in Dawn's Respite to discuss how best to use their pent-up energy. Let's join them, shall we?
Well, my friends─now that we have all settled back into our bodies, it is time we resumed our duties in earnest. Let us speak of our plans.
Ever since the Emperor's death, it's been one unsettling rumor after another. I've a mind to pay a visit to Garlemald to ascertain the truth of the matter.
A prudent endeavor. 'Tis of the essence that we establish the full extent of the threat. Not least if it should prove that Zenos doth indeed orchestrate events from the shadows.
In light of which possibility, I shall accompany thee on thy mission.
Be assured that thou shalt find me more a help than a hindrance. Thou requirest another to imbue thine ammunition, dost thou not?
Assuming that's settled, there's something I've been meaning to look into as well.
Welcome back, everyone!
Lyse!
You're fine now, right? No more headaches or keeling over?
That's right. We're fighting fit, and raring to go!
The famous Lyse Hext...former Scion and hero of the Ala Mhigan Resistance.
I don't believe we've met.
Really? It's so easy to assume that all Archons are acquainted. But then I suppose your fields of expertise are rather different.
G'raha Tia, at your service. I have read much and more about your exploits, Commander. It is a pleasure to finally make your acquaintance.
Likewise. The others told me all about you.
Do not be so sure. Words scarcely do justice to the vital role he played in our victory in the First. A more dependable comrade one would be hard-pressed to find.
Ah, right, I did glance at the report...but I'd be lying if I said I understood half of it.
Well, well...that's a lot to take in. Um... Just to be clear, this means we're not heading for another calamity, does it?
Shorn of their unsundered masters' leadership, what Ascians remain shall struggle to see their plans to fruition.
And though I would ever advise caution, I believe we may rest easy for a time.
I'll take that as a yes.
Even so, I don't know what to make of this business about Hydaelyn and Zodiark being primals...
A difficult truth to bear, yes. But at last we understand the nature of our adversary. And if there are no further calamities, neither will there be Rejoinings, meaning Zodiark will never regain His full strength.
Even so, as the oldest and mightiest of primals, He remains a force to be feared.
Though His is a power born of the desire for salvation, we have seen the havoc it may wreak. And it falls to us to ensure that it is never again brought to bear upon this star.
But tell us, Lyse, to what do we owe the pleasure of your visit?
What do you mean? Isn't seeing my long-lost comrades reason enough? ...All right, there was one other matter. I have a message from the Alliance. And before you ask, yes, it's about the Empire.
So, after Emperor Varis's assassination, it seems his cousin “Nerva” made a bid for the throne.
The trouble is, he wasn't the only one with designs on it, and it didn't take long for a civil war to break out. And it's not just in the provinces. Early reports say huge swathes of the imperial capital have been reduced to rubble.
The Alliance will soon convene in Ala Mhigo to decide on a course of action, and we were hoping you'd come along.
Well! As it happens, Urianger and I were just this moment planning a little trip to Garlemald. And we should be grateful for any advice the Alliance can provide on how best to make the most of our visit.
To Ala Mhigo, then.
Why don't you go on without me. There's something I need to look into.
Ah, forgive me, you were just telling us. What is it, if I may ask?
I want to find a way to cure the tempered.
Of course. You think it may be possible to adapt the treatment you used to help those corrupted by the sin eaters...
I'm sorry? A cure for tempering? But that would change everything! Alisaie─consider yourself uninvited. Go and find us this cure!
I'll do my best.
I was hoping you might join me. Don't worry if not, though─I won't hold it against you if you'd rather attend a stuffy meeting.
I knew you'd say yes.
Rest assured there'll be many, many more. Go on, lend Alisaie a hand.
I'll come too! ...If you don't mind, that is.
Mind? I'm sure they would be glad of your company. Pray enjoy your time together with your hero.
My...? N-No, that's not─ I mean, I— I-I simply thought my knowledge might be of some use!
We shall be on our way, then. Godsspeed.
When I set out to save Halric, I think Ga Bu was always at the back of my mind. And having proved that the Light-corrupted are not lost, I am convinced that the same must be true of the tempered.
Similar to those corrupted by the sin eaters, the aether of Ga Bu's soul has been rendered stagnant.
And though the root cause is different, perhaps the solution is the same.
It is by no means an unreasonable hypothesis, Alisaie. And it warrants full investigation.
If there's even a chance we can save Ga Bu, we have to try. But however much I'd like to race over to Limsa and set to work, there's no room for recklessness. Not when a child's life is at stake.
As I'm sure Beq Lugg would remind us, we still know little and less about the soul. Any number of things could go wrong if we don't exercise due caution.
And so, before attempting anything, we should learn all we possibly can about tempering.
There's just one problem: research into the condition has long since ground to a halt, and the combined work of the many scholars involved doesn't exactly amount to a wealth of knowledge...
Not of the modern scholars, perhaps. But what of their ancient counterparts? I know the Allagans took a more-than-passing interest in the subject.
And if what we seek is to be found anywhere, it would surely be at the Aetherochemical Research Facility.
...Where they experimented on primals and their worshipers, yes? Good thinking. I've never actually been there myself, but I did read the reports on Azys Lla. Which means we'll be needing an airship.
Heh heh heh...! An airship, you say?
Meet me at the northern bank of Silvertear Lake─I've got a little surprise for you. Oh, and come prepared to travel!
I give you the Bonanza, the Scions' very own airship!
I built her as a company project with help from our friends at the Rising Stones, and named her for luck and prosperity!
Tataru, this is... This is amazing! We'll be able to fly just about anywhere we want!
Our garments were impressive enough, but to build an entire airship... I see the annals did not exaggerate the many talents of the Scions' fabled coinkeeper.
Hee hee hee! I'd also introduce myself as your pilot, except the training didn't go quite as well as I'd hoped... But that's all right, because we've hired this capable fellow here instead!
The Bonanza is equipped with a full complement of manacutters, by the way. Feel free to use them to get around Azys Lla!
But enough talk─it's time to fly. All aboard!
Honestly, Cid would be jealous of the way that airship flies. Tataru has outdone herself.
Anyway, here we are, on Azys Lla─and Alphinaud's report did not do the scale of this place justice...
This appears to be Helix, which means we stand in the Alpha Quadrant. To the east lies the Beta Quadrant, and...
Yes, I believe I have my bearings. Though this is my first time on Azys Lla, I do have some familiarity with the place thanks to the records in the Crystal Tower.
Unless I am mistaken, this path leads to an aetheryte, beyond which there will be an information terminal. I suggest we begin our search there.
And here is the terminal. A moment while I search the archives for references to tempering...
Ah, there we are...
“Eikonic Corruption ─ An Overview”... That sounds promising!
Indeed. Let us see what this report has to say.
Hm? ...Confound it. The contents appear to have been deleted.
What? No...! Isn't there something you can do?
Not from here, I'm afraid. But it may be that another copy of the report exists elsewhere. The question is, where to look...?
It says here the report was written by someone named Owen. Is it likely that he kept a copy?
I would say it is a distinct possibility. Assuming he was a researcher here, he will have had quarters on the Habisphere. We can ascertain the details at Habisphere Control.
Let us return to the Bonanza and avail ourselves of the manacutters. We will need them to reach our destination.
I forgot─you already have a suitable means of transport, don't you. No need to waste time accompanying us back to the ship, then. We'll see you at the Habisphere.
If the late Owen did indeed have a chamber here, this node will be able to tell us its number.
There. From what I recall of the layout, it should be somewhere in the vicinity of─...Hm?
