Ugh...
Where am I...?
What...what's going on?
A dream led you to me...?
I understand how absurd that may sound. We, ourselves, were unsure of what awaited us here.
As for who we are, I am content to be known as “the minstrel.” This stalwart hero is Forename Surname.
Might we have the pleasure of your name?
Clive. I─ The last thing I remember was the ruins...
Hngh!
My head... Where...? How did I come to be in this place...?
'Twould seem you were knocked senseless. Confusion is to be expected.
For safety's sake, I suggest we make for town and have a Phrontistery physician look you over.
I shall see our patient receives proper treatment. Would you mind waiting for us at Scholars' Walk?
Our foundling is being cared for as we speak, but I'm told he should be released soon.
Hopefully 'twas naught that a bite of food and a little bed rest couldn't cure...
It was kind of you to wait, thank you.
What of your condition?
Much improved. The physiker also noted no signs of injury or illness.
Yet my memories remain hazy. How did I end up there...?
Whatever I was doing, it was important, I'm sure of it. I must return as soon as possible.
I see...
We cannot leave him in this state. We must help him restore his memories and find his way home.
What of this city, Clive? Do any parts of Ul'dah strike you as familiar?
No... Maybe I've simply forgotten, but I recognize nothing.
Hm, not Ul'dahn, then. Still, I should like to think that the sights and sounds of a well-known locale will hasten your recovery.
The Burning Wall, the place where we found you, is situated midway betwixt Ul'dah and Gridania. Perhaps a trip to the Twelveswood is in order?
Gridania, you say? The name rings no bells, but I have no better suggestions.
And you would take me there?
Meanwhile, I shall make the rounds of the neighboring settlements, and ask if any have heard of you. Let us rendezvous in Gridania anon.
This entire situation has me knocked off balance, I'm afraid.
Forename, was it? I appreciate you coming to my rescue.
Still, you must have your own business to attend to. We can set out whenever you're ready.
Are we ready? Then let's head out.
This Gridania the minstrel mentioned, is it far? Will we need mounts?
...By “airship”? You have those?
Not that I mean to doubt you, friend. If you say we're boarding an airship, then that's what we'll do.
Forename, if I may ask a foolish question... Do these airships of yours actually fly?
A foolish question indeed, then. Your expression tells me as much.
I believe it will be.
So it would seem...
It's odd... I know that the weapon on my back is called a “sword.” I understand what it's for and how to wield it.
Foggy as my memories may be, my general knowledge seems intact.
Yet hearing you speak of functional airships, I felt...confusion. Disbelief. For something that you clearly think of as commonplace.
I can make no sense of it. Where was I before now...?
Ah, but dwelling on this is pointless. Forward is the only way.
To feel that bracing wind, the deck shuddering beneath your feet as you rise into the sky... My memory may be faulty, but that was an experience I'm sure I'd not soon forget.
So, this is Gridania? It seems very unlike the city we just left.
Where to begin...? I think it best if I follow your lead.
This city certainly has a different feel to Ul'dah. Not only the architecture, but the people as well.
An urgent task? Please, by all means. We can rendezvous back at the airship landing.
Shall we continue from where we left off?
This tavern... It reminds me of somewhere I've been before...
No, it's no use. I can feel the memory, but it's like grasping at smoke. But maybe if you were to show me somewhere else?
...A chocobo!? Now that's something I recognize.
Yet it's more than that. I had my own chocobo once, I'm sure of it.
But as for the when or the where...
An impressive crystal. Not a Mothercrystal, surely...?
No, not nearly large enough.
Ugh, when I try to remember, the fog in my head almost seems to grow thicker...
This is a truly beautiful place.
I do like what I've seen of it. Seems a peaceful life here among the trees, only...
Brief flashes of this and that, but nothing to suggest I've been here before.
I just can't shake the strangest feeling.
As if it's too peaceful. And that doesn't sit right...
Patrol reporting, Commander! All is quiet with the Ixal─no sightings of Garuda!
For which we are profoundly grateful. At ease, soldier.
Did he say “Garuda”?
You there! This Garuda you speak of─
Hngh...
Sir, are you alright?
Captain Surname. Do you know this gentleman?
Memory loss, you say? I'm sorry to hear that. Though it seems Garuda's name has lit a spark of some sort.
I was in a battle...with Garuda. I fought her, I'm sure of it.
Please, you must tell me more. Anything that might help me remember my past.
Of course. Gridania owes a debt of gratitude to any who've stood against that destructive fiend.
However, there is one more suited to the task than I. Our Elder Seedseer is well versed not only in primal lore, but also in the treatment of bodily afflictions. She is surely your best hope for recovery.
I will send word ahead to Stillglade Fane. Stand ready to escort our guests to an audience.
Understood, Commander!
Pray find me at Nophica's Altar in Old Gridania, and I will see that you are granted entry to the Lotus Stand.
The way back to what I've lost begins with Garuda. Of that I feel certain.
The Lotus Stand lies just ahead. If you would follow me, please.
Greetings, honored guests.
Commander Heuloix has apprised me of your friend's condition. This is he?
A pleasure to meet you. I am Kan-E-Senna, Elder Seedseer of Gridania.
I thank you for your gracious welcome.
I am Clive...though beyond that, I fear my introduction may be lacking.
Please, concern yourself not with proprieties─'tis your memory loss we are here to address. I am told Garuda's name awakened some previous recollection...?
Yes. In the instant I heard it, a hazy vision of battle rose unbidden. I think perhaps if I could hear more of Garuda...
A wish easily granted.
Garuda is the deity revered by the Ixal, a people who once dwelled here in the Twelveswood.
She appears as a winged entity, half-bird, half-woman, who commands the wind itself. Most frightening, however, is her capricious temper, as unpredictable as a howling storm.
I should add that Forename has fought against Garuda in her primal incarnation.
A winged woman of volatile temperament, with power over the wind... A fitting description of the opponent I remember.
But a deity...? No, the will behind that monstrous visage was distinctly mortal.
I suspect Clive's Garuda and Eorzea's primal are not one and the same.
Mainly as Clive himself is not of our world.
Explain yourself, minstrel.
I went back to where we discovered Clive and questioned folk in all the nearby settlements. Not one person recognized his description.
Such a distinctive tattoo escaping the notice of every local rumormonger for malms around? Improbable, to say the least.
That led me to consider another possibility. One consistent with past accounts I have heard of visitors from other worlds somehow stumbling through reality's curtain and finding their way to our star.
My brand, it's... It's the mark of a Bearer.
Does it pain you to remember?
I feel the memories trying to surface, but when I strain to recall, a piercing ringing fills my ears...
Garuda. Bearer. Ifrit...
Another primal's name. 'Twould seem the pain has a less-than-tangible source.
Long have I studied the healing arts, yet I sense no shadow of illness in your body. Your suffering stems not from injury nor sickness.
Victims of terrible events have been known to suppress their own memories out of instinct...
One's subconscious denies attempts to confront the awful truth, the mind creating a shield of pain to protect the heart.
The barrier is of my own making? How, then, am I to overcome it?
With our aid, of course.
Fate has brought us together, and together we shall triumph over this adversity!
So, you think me from another world...
And my memories of said world are not like to return unless I acknowledge some terrible truth. A truth my mind refuses to remember.
'Tis a confounding dilemma, I agree, and I have given thought to a solution.
I believe that the shackles which bind your mind may yet be struck off in the heat of battle. A drastic measure, perhaps, especially when not at your best.
Which is why I turn to you, Forename. You are the twin to Clive's wandering star─your involvement is no accident.
The path I see is thick with thorns, but if you've the will to walk it, then gird yourself for war and await me at Apkallu Falls.
The minstrel has a plan, it seems, but he shares little beyond confusing metaphor...
Still, I'm willing to indulge him if it means making progress.
We're to meet him at “Apkallu Falls,” right? And where is that to be found?
Good─not far, then. Let's get on with it.
This place...? Why here?
Because this waterfall is where the legendary Archon Louisoix gathered a band of adventurers in the time of the Seventh Umbral Calamity.
Their purpose: to extinguish the infernal Ifrit.
Ifrit!?
Hngh. I know something is there, I just... Why can't I remember!?
Clive recalled several words in the Elder Seedseer's presence─words which brought him pain. While the significance of “Bearer” eludes me, you and I are more than familiar with “Ifrit.”
Considering your reaction to the mere mention of the name, 'tis likely that the primal─or its equivalent in your world─is deeply connected to your condition.
Thus have I resolved to weave my lyrical magicks and bring you face-to-face with the Ifrit of our world.
Here, where Archon Louisoix paved an aetherial path to the primal's lair, will my words be given substance. And within the vision which takes form will you do battle with a phantom of our minds' creation.
Imaginary though this confrontation may be, I fear your suffering will be all too real. Yet you must persevere, for your hidden truth will not be unearthed without hardship.
Take heart, scarlet star, and call upon the strength of your shining twin! Your past awaits!
Where has he sent us!?
You stand in the Bowl of Embers, the site where the Amalj'aa summoned their patron deity...and the stage upon which the Warrior of Light became a slayer of gods.
'Tis but convincing illusion─the body of recounted tale given breath by fanciful verse.
Come forth, Lord of the Inferno!
An accurate facsimile, yet not quite the Ifrit you know.
No. Not quite the same...
Hngggh!
Alright. Time to find out who I am.
Together, then.
Ifrit...
That's the thing which killed Joshua! Yes...I've been on its trail, seeking vengeance for my brother!
This fiend must pay. Fight with me, Forename!
With me, Forename!
Bleed!
Hah!
Hyah!
Come on!
Stay sharp─you can evade the worst of his blows!
Well done.Now it's your turn!
His flames grow hotter...Watch yourself!
What is he up to!?
Ugh!
Damn, he's fast...
Hngh!
Shit! I can't move!
Forename, buy me some time!
Forename, buy me some time!
I've failed...
This...won't...hold me!
My thanks.
Not this time!
Fall already!
My turn!
Forename!
Still in the fight?
These blades, they're feeding him power...But not if we break them!
There's too damn many!We cannot rely on steel alone...
Enough!
Just a few more, Forename!We leave none standing!
...On your guard.He means to unleash hell!
Still with me, Forename?Let's finish this!
Saw that coming.
Now!
Forename, no!
I blamed another...to spare myself the guilt.
I feared that by accepting it, I would lose what little was left of me.
But I accept the truth of it now.
You are not Ifrit. I am.
In the battle against your own mind, 'twould seem you have emerged the victor.
Intriguing...
The illusion is unraveled, yet you've brought a friend back with you...
This is Torgal, a wolf pup raised in the duchy. There is no more loyal ally in battle, and no keener guide when the road ahead is uncertain.
Ah... That would explain the aberration in the lingering aether. Torgal is here to lead you back to your own world.
Clive has embraced his harrowing past, and in doing so reclaimed the memories he lost. Though not a conscious act, he has manifested his readiness to return home in the form of a trusted companion.
Even so, it was...difficult...to accept what I'd done.
My younger brother─Joshua─was a kind and gifted soul.
The inheritor of the Phoenix's flames, he was destined to become archduke, as our father had before him. But Joshua was murdered. His bright future cut short.
From that day onwards, I lived for one purpose alone. A Dominant of Fire had slain my brother, and I would have my revenge.
I spent years tracking the killer, until one day...I came to understand it had been me all along.
I was young and distraught when I first summoned Ifrit. I hadn't known such power lurked within me─or that it could even exist at all.
The transformation was instinctive, uncontrolled... And it was by my hand that Joshua died.
I can but imagine the anguish this caused you.
There was anguish, yes, and a guilt I will never escape. But I cannot let it stop me.
I was born the vessel for Ifrit's power, and I need to know why.
It was in search of answers that I went to Phoenix Gate, and delved into the ruins below. There I found the courage to face my past and accept the truth─and then everything faded to black.
Hmmm, your tale suggests that something in the ruins─some mysterious force─was responsible for your inadvertent journey.
And if you arrived in Eorzea from a place sacred to the Phoenix and its flames, then it stands to reason...
Yes? What are you thinking?
I'm thinking that to see you home, then we must return to the beginning. Our road takes us back to the Burning Wall!
Once there, your furry comrade will lead us exactly where we need to go.
Such an incredible sight. I was in no state to appreciate these crystals the first time...
