The covenant...is everlasting...
And so Meracydia is brought into the fold. Soon, all the world shall be united under Allagan rule.
And yet...with every dream that becomes reality, the memory of death grows ever more vivid─an endless void, bereft of light and warmth.
Though I may have defeated death, it did not leave me unscathed. Nay, its ravening claws have scarred my soul for eternity. Never shall I know peace.
Beings without will. You cannot fathom my rage. My melancholy. My fear.
What worth is wealth and power when all must inevitably be consigned to nothingness? If man has nothing, he need not know the pain of loss.
So let there be nothing.
Harvest more power, that the gate may be thrown full open. Let the Cloud of Darkness come and engulf the world, devouring all life, hopes, and dreams. Let all be returned to nothingness.
Forename! Pull yourself together!
Is there no end to them!? What in the seven hells is happening!?
Argh! Not now, damn it!
Nero! Were they part of your grand plan, too?
Save your japes, Garlond! I didn't put up with your arrogant face to play with worthless clones!
Something controls them. A voidsent, and no ordinary one at that.
Doga!
Confound it! Without them, there's no way to master the darkness!
That power...is mine!
Nero!
The covenant shall be honored.
I am the Cloud of Darkness. I shall devour your light, and return this world to the void.
Damn it, the rift is gone! What are we supposed to do now?
As much as it pains me to leave without them, there's precious little we can do. Let us return to the Find and consult Rammbroes.
All this happened within the tower? Gods preserve...
The rift that manifested before the throne was a voidgate, of this I am certain.
There exist myriad kinds of voidsent. The more powerful the being, the larger the gate must be for it to pass through.
'Twould seem that Xande sought to open a gate of unprecedented proportions─one that would allow this Cloud of Darkness entry into our world.
Fortunately for all mankind, he did not succeed. I shudder to imagine what this voidsent is capable of.
However dreadful it may be, we can't abandon our friends. Is there no way to save them?
I will not lie to you, Master Garlond. The situation is bleak.
Though voidsent can enter our world, instances of men entering the void have never been documented. It pains me to give voice to my fears, but we do not even know whether our friends still live.
Damn it... I feel so helpless...
No, I refuse to give up. We must save Doga and Unei.
We share the same eye, 'tis true, but that is not what motivates me.
Above all, I wish to help them to fulfill their mission─a mission whose burden they have borne for thousands of years. And besides...
We cannot leave matters as they are.
So long as Xande's dark covenant is binding, our world is in danger. 'Tis our duty to prevent the worst from coming to pass.
G'raha. Ever since meeting Unei and Doga, you have not quite been yourself. Tell me true: is all well with your eye?
I honestly cannot say. I know only that there is a memory that I must recall.
As a child, my father told me that the truth of our eye rests with Allag. The answer eludes me still...but one day I will find it.
I am with G'raha.
However slim the odds, we must try to save Unei and Doga. Aye, and that bastard Nero as well, if only to make certain that he won't make any more mischief.
You have the right of it. Though we have known them but briefly, Doga and Unei are our comrades. We cannot fail them.
I shall consult experts and literature both. I swear to leave no stone unturned.
Yet know that it may be a while before we are ready to act. I would ask that you all be patient. When dealing with the void, one cannot be cautious enough.
My thanks again for your assistance. Pray rest now while you can. For when the time comes to go after our friends, you must be at no less than full strength.
We'll save them yet, Forename! Mark my words!
<sigh> Try as I might, I cannot shake a creeping sense of dark foreboding... But it avails us naught to fret about the unknown. We must concentrate instead on the problems of the present.
The primals have been relatively quiet of late, and the beast tribes who summon them are under constant surveillance by the Grand Companies.
Should any suspicious activity be afoot, you may be certain that we will hear of it.
And until such time as a permanent solution to the primal problem has been found, we can do little but wait and observe.
As for the Ascians, Urianger is wholly dedicated to finding the means by which we may defeat the dark beings. Let us pray for good tidings on that front.
...But all of this you knew already. Let us speak then of more current matters─in particular, the state of the Crystal Braves.
Alphinaud did well to found the organization, but ensuring its smooth operation is another matter entirely.
Though I doubt not that he is doing his best, I felt that a helping hand or two would not go astray.
To this end, I offered to send one of the Archons to assist him, but he declined. You know how he can be─independent to a fault, and singularly loath to accept help...
...Save, of course, when that help comes from you. Alphinaud has entrusted countless matters of import to your care in the past, and I believe he would not hesitate to do so again...were you to offer.
I should be most grateful if you would go to him, and support him in whatever manner you are able.
What is it, Forename? And do be concise. I am rather busy.
...Hm? You would lend a hand, you say? I see. Well...now that you mention it, there is a matter that wants for attention.
Given its sensitive nature, I was hesitant to entrust it to my Braves, but the demands upon my time are such that I had little choice.
Which is not to say that my men want for labor. Though we are but newly formed, there is already a great demand for our services, and we are hard-pressed to answer all petitions. But I digress...
The fact is, I would sooner attend to this particular matter myself, but my presence is required elsewhere.
That being the case, I have entrusted its resolution to my second-in-command, Captain Ilberd.
Tell him that I sent you, and he will furnish you with the particulars. My thanks in advance, Forename.
Hail to you, Scion. How might we serve you?
...Commander Leveilleur bade you serve us?
These are welcome tidings indeed. Given the sensitive nature of the task, I could not rely on one of my own.
That which I am about to tell you, I tell you in the strictest confidence.
Some days ago, we received certain documents from an anonymous source. They notified us of the presence of a Garlean agent within the ranks of one of the Grand Companies.
Following some discreet inquiries, we identified a suspect among the Immortal Flames whom we detained for questioning.
Alas, the man was not our agent. He was but one of many men in the agent's employ.
We pressed the traitor for a name, but he had none to give. He claims never to have met his master, whom he knows only as the Ivy.
He was, however, certain that this “ivy” had coiled itself around every part of the Immortal Flames. It would seem our quarry joined the company some time ago, and gradually recruited others to his cause.
These conspirators are the vines by which he learns our secrets, all without exposing himself.
It won't be easy to identify the Ivy amidst this tangled mass of subterfuge. But we have a tendril in our hands, and we shall follow it all the way to the gnarled root.
Now, much as I would prefer to proceed with due discretion, circumstances demand that this matter be settled posthaste.
Garlemald's war of succession nears its end, and it is feared that the Empire will soon resume its march on Eorzea.
When it does, we can ill afford to have traitors in our midst. The Ivy must be rooted out now.
We must begin by apprising General Raubahn of our findings. I would ask that you accompany me to the Hall of Flames, and remain on hand to see that things go smoothly.
Assuming the Ivy's tendrils are as widespread as we believe, he will be aware that an investigation is underway. And if that is the case, he may well move against us.
We must be prepared for anything, while taking care not to betray our purpose by seeming prepared. A simple enough task for a one-woman army like you.
Well, well. What brings you here, my friend?
She is here at my behest. Greetings, Raubahn. It has been a while.
Ilberd, you old scoundrel! When they told me you'd be visiting, I scarce believed my ears!
But look at you! The honored captain of the Crystal bloody Braves! Who'd have imagined, eh?
Not many. But fewer still would have imagined your destiny lay in politics, old friend.
Aye...we've both come far, have we not?
Lest you wonder, Ilberd and I go back a long way. We've been friends and rivals since we were lads.
The last time we saw each other, Ala Mhigo had just fallen, so you can guess how many summers it's been. And in all that time, not a word from the fool!
Ah, well, my dealings tended toward the modest and mundane...unlike some I could mention.
As I hear it, no sooner did you reach Thanalan than the Brass Blades clapped you in irons and dragged you off to die on the bloodsands. But being a stubborn sort, you won a thousand matches, and earned yourself a place in the people's hearts while you were about it.
Then, with your mountain of prize money, you bought the Coliseum, and secured a seat on the Syndicate. Thal's balls, brother─rags-to-riches does not do it justice! You're a hero to the common man!
Bah, spare me. I am no hero. If anyone is worthy of that title, it's our friend here. Next to her, I'm little more than a glorified butcher.
But you, Ilberd─you sell yourself short. By all accounts, you were an adventurer of some standing.
I like to think that I did my part for the greater good. But if you are no hero, then I am no adventurer─not in this company. Anyway...
I have tidings.
So there has been progress.
I've let it be known that this meeting is a reunion between old friends. None will give your visit a second thought.
To convene elsewhere would only attract attention. Let us speak here, in plain view of all.
...So it is we who have been compromised.
Teledji Adeledji's machinations have shaken Ul'dah to her foundations. In such uncertain times, a man's loyalty may be bought for a fistful of gil...
But if this snake has truly been in our midst for as long as you say, we must needs consider a far graver possibility: conspiracy. Could it be that the Monetarists have been in league with the Empire from the first?
Very well. I will have my most trusted men investigate the matter. Continue your inquiries in the meantime.
It does me well to see you again, old friend. When next we meet, let it be over a flagon of ale.
I look forward to it. Let us reminisce of bygone days, and drink to the future of our homeland.
Flame General... You wear the mantle well, old friend. I must work hard if I'm to keep up.
Well, it would seem your services were not required after all. I daresay we have Raubahn's prudence to thank for that. Still, I was glad of your presence. My thanks, Scion.
Our hunt for the Ivy begins in earnest, Scion.
Suffice it to say, we must tread warily. But one misstep may well cost us our lives.
Our business here is concluded for the time being. Let us return to the Rising Stones and report to Commander Leveilleur.
We are returned from Ul'dah, Commander.
And not a moment too soon. Something has happened.
Trouble?
You will recall that the 4th was tasked with reconnoitering the rendezvous site used by the Ivy's minion and his imperial contacts. Soon after you left, we received word that the unit was ambushed en route to its destination.
Gods damn it...
According to the report, one of ours has been taken captive. The Garleans are not wont to treat their foemen with dignity, and I have grave fears for her safety.
We must dispatch a rescue party at once. Recall those Braves who are afield.
Begging your pardons, Commander, but we have not the time.
I'm afraid I must ask for your aid once more, Scion.
An ill-prepared rescue party will only serve to provide the Garleans with more captives, yet time is of the essence. Simply put, you are the best chance we have.
Captain Ilberd has the right of it. I trust you are willing? But of course you are. Now, Alianne of the 4th lies in wait in the Tangle, near the entrance to Castrum Centri. Seek her out, and she will apprise you of the situation.
...You would aid us in the rescue mission? We are in your debt, Warrior of Light! Now, time is against us, so allow me to brief you on the situation.
The Garleans fell upon us without warning, wounding poor Rhesh and hauling her away to the castrum yonder. Outnumbered as we were, it was all we could do to flee and regroup.
Even as we speak, the Garleans may be interrogating Rhesh...or worse. With her hurts, I fear that she will not long survive their attentions. We must rescue her without delay.
Our order may yet be in its infancy, but the bond that binds us is strong as mythril. None of us will stand by while a comrade suffers.
We, the remnants of the 4th, will infiltrate Castrum Centri. Please help us find Rhesh before it is too late!
