Don't let them get away!
We cannot allow that conjurer to draw this out!
Remember your techniques! Finish her quickly while she is weak!
Bloody hells! Why won't you two die!?
Stay on your toes, Forename! This lot is quicker than the rest!
Watch their movements and dodge their attacks!
Was that the last of them?
Have you seen Aliapoh?
With me, Forename.
Tsk-tsk. That was a piss-poor showin', sister.
An' ye call yerself a Keeper? A hunter with no fangs ain't nothin' but prey.
No!
Awww, bugger. Looks like playtime's over.
Be seein' ye, sister!
Seven hells! They were at my old post? And they drank my old mead!?
That stings most of all... Well, 'tis past time the proper authorities were informed. I'll send messengers to the Wood Wailers and Gods' Quiver.
The Redbelly bandits won't like it one bit, but I'll see they're told exactly who the military is after. I only hope it'll be enough...
'Course, Pawah Mujuuk's no fool. Now she knows she's been spotted, she'll break camp and be long gone by the time the next bell sounds. And the trail won't stay fresh long, neither...
Anyway, you've done me a great kindness, friends. Tell Luciane I appreciate the help.
Welcome back, Forename. Silvairre tells me that you encountered Pawah Mujuuk.
No Gridanian could fail to recognize that name, so oft has it been spoken, and with such bitterness.
I fear we lack the strength to face her ourselves. This is a matter for the Gods' Quiver and Wood Wailers.
That you confronted her and survived is a testament to your growing mastery of our art. Ah, and I was surprised to note that Leih and Silvairre were not at loggerheads upon their return. I presume we owe this unnatural state of affairs to your calming influence?
...No? Modest to the last. Truly, your every deed bespeaks a clarity of vision far beyond your years.
I implore you to share that perspective with your peers and help them to grow into better, wiser archers.
As you go forth and temper your skills in battle, know that we always look forward to your return.
Ah, Forename, I had hoped you would come. You may be able to help. I am concerned about Leih and Silvairre...
They show signs of losing perspective, and... Well, mayhap it is best you see for yourself. I cannot help but feel that both would benefit from your counsel.
Consider this a personal request, Forename.
Hm? Oh, gods... Did Luciane send you to pester me, by any chance? This is hardly her concern, and it is most definitely not yours.
If you must know, I have decided to leave the guild.
I mean to track down Pawah Mujuuk and finish what we started. The Gods' Quiver and Wood Wailers seem content to ignore our warnings, but I will not let her escape again.
I already made that mistake once, and it cost me my place in the Gods' Quiver.
Aye, the foolish young sentry of whom I once spoke─he was me. <sigh> We had her, Forename. There was no escape. But then she began to wail about a wounded comrade, one who would surely die without her help... She looked me straight in the eye and begged...
And I blinked. I failed to see through the most elementary ruse. I failed Gridania and the Gods' Quiver...and while that can never be forgiven, mayhap I can reclaim a measure of honor by stopping her.
...But a wanderer like you would not understand what it means to betray your people.
Worry not─I do not intend to leave just yet. I will continue to gather information until I am certain of Mujuuk's whereabouts. Make no mistake, though─it is only a matter of time.
Now run along, will you? Oh, and if you are so concerned about your fellow guildmates, you should attend to that moping Miqo'te. The sight of her shuffling around whilst staring at her feet is bad for morale.
...Not that it matters to me.
Oh...it's you. Tell me, Forename, do you ever think about home? Do you ever wish you could go back?
Mine was just another poor village in the Twelveswood. The fields were more stone than soil, and merchants hardly ever bothered to visit. We didn't have a lot...but we didn't need it.
And then the Calamity came. I remember running, and the screams... It was so loud, Forename...so unbearably loud... And then I was here, in a strange city, surrounded by more people than I'd ever seen, and I didn't know any of them.
But I knew how to hunt. I was always good at hunting, Forename, and the guild gave me a place to get better.
At least I thought I had gotten better. She...Pawah Mujuuk...she was so much more...
I've been thinking, Forename, that maybe this is a sign. Maybe Silvairre is right, and this guild─this city─is no place for an outsider like me.
And so I've decided to leave. I'm glad to have known you, Forename, even if it was only for a short while.
Forgive me if this is too selfish a request, but before I go, I would like to meet with you one last time.
Alone, in the South Shroud. These...Gridanians would not understand.
No! Don't hurt her!
And there I was, thinkin' ye mightn't accept my kind invitation!
...I don't recall invitin' her, though... 'Tis rude to presume, missy, an' I do so hate rudeness...
Wait! It's not her fault─it's mine! I invited her. She's a member of the Archers' Guild, like me─and she's not Gridanian!
Ahhh...I do begin to recall her face... Aye, knows how to hold a bow, that one. Well, she ain't the typical recruit, but I reckon I might be willin' to make an exception.
No, no─it's not like that. I just...I wanted to say good-bye.
Forename, ever since I met Pawah, I've been at a loss. But I realize now that my place isn't at the guild...with the Gridanians.
They'll never accept me. This is where I belong, with my people, carrying on our traditions. Our archery─not Gridania's.
It's all I have left, Forename. So I'm going with Pawah. Maybe you don't understand now, but...just promise me you won't tell Luciane...or Silvairre.
Forename...
Made yer peace with yer little friend, have ye? Right then, let's get on with it!
Forename!
Heh! I had a feelin' she might be harborin' a few nigglin' objections. Worry not, sister...
Put an arrow in her!
NO!
Ain't no love lost 'twixt ye an' the guild, is there? Then what's the problem with featherin' a bloody 'venturer? No bugger'll miss her.
I'll miss her, all right!? So just...just stop!
Dear me... An' I had such high hopes for you, Miss Aliapoh... Waste o' bloody time! A Keeper what's lost her nerve's about as much use to me as a glass bow.
But there's no sport in killin' captured prey.
Ack! I'd better not see neither o' ye again, 'cause if I do, I'll show ye what happens to prey what's daft enough to get caught twice. Away, sisters! Away!
How do you do it, Forename? How do you live in this place─with these people?
And why do you even bother? What have they ever given you beside scorn? Well? What do you see in them, Forename?
Even though you joined the guild after I did, you've come so far, so quickly. Maybe you've even surpassed me...
I have to know how you've done it. I have to know what it is that I'm doing wrong...
...And there's only one way I can think of to find out. Meet me at the Bannock.
Shall we begin, Forename?
Then defend yourself! Show me what these people have taught you!
I said fight me, damn it! Why are you holding back!?
Is that all you've got!? I know you can do better!
Not bad...but I'm not finished yet!
For my people...for my family...for me!
I...I see now...
<pant> <pant> It's so simple...
You have opened your eyes, and looked beyond your masters' faults. You've accepted their teachings and taken them to heart. Even Silvairre, for all his bigotry, wishes only to preserve his traditions.
I lost sight of everyone else's struggles and became obsessed with mine own. I was so afraid to let go of my cherished notion of archery─my family's notion─and learn another way. I didn't want to betray them...or dishonor their memory.
...But I have a family here too─a family that sees the wider world, and is willing to show me how blinkered I have become.
As archers, we train our eyes and minds to be unforgiving─to defy any attempt at concealment, and discern the naked truth. It is little wonder then that I have neglected to look inside myself until now. Though unquestionably worthwhile, I have found the experience rather...excruciating. Ahem!
Thank you, Forename. I know now that I belong at the guild, together with you and Luciane...
...And, yes, even that bloody Wildwood. Gods help me─I think I might actually miss him...
Welcome home, Forename.
You need not say a word. One look at Leih's eyes was enough.
Thank you for returning her to us.
When we focus on a single goal and pursue it with passion and fervor, it becomes easy to lose sight of what else lies before us.
With your skill and vision, Forename, you can help your fellow archers to look beyond themselves and remember their comrades. I hope I can count on your support in the future.
Thank the gods you've come, Forename! Perhaps you can talk some sense into this stubborn fool!
Calm yourself, Silvairre. At least let us petition the Order of the Twin Adder for─
There is no time, Luciane! Pawah would be long gone before their forces had even assembled!
Alone, I can move more swiftly, take these poachers by surprise, and force them to divulge her location.
We understand how you feel, Silvairre, but this is too reckless! At least permit Forename and me to accompany you.
You? The adventurer and the savage? You do not─you cannot understand.
Silvairre!
But I do understand! I know what it means to take pride in your home, to want more than anything to protect it...and to be consumed by guilt when you cannot. I see what you're going through, Silvairre, and I...I understand.
This guild taught me to open my eyes and see clearly. I beg you, Silvairre, open yours! You have friends here, ready to fight. You have us.
...I have never considered you my friends. Do not follow me.
...Well his lying certainly hasn't improved. <sigh>
If he honestly thinks he's doing us a favor by forbidding us from getting involved, he's an even bigger fool than I imagined. Come, Forename! To the South Shroud!
<pant> <pant> Well this is...unfortunate.
Silvairre!
Leih!? Forename!? I told you not to follow me! I neither need nor want─
Don't take me for a fool. You cannot conceal the truth from this archer's eye!
Forename, the others are almost upon us. We must make our stand here and protect Silvairre!
