Light the way!
What is this defiance?
No! The hatred, the pain, the loss...
We cannot suffer it again...
We will stand against fate.
We will stand against fate.
No matter the cost!
No matter the cost!
We've been here before...
We've been here before...
Many a time.
Many a time.
Thus do we know...
Thus do we know...
To never give up.
To never give up.
For hope will shine again!
For hope will shine again!
What we saw... What I saw...
This can only end in misery and desolation!
No life, no star, nor the universe itself...
None should hope for better!
If this...was not the answer...then what is it? Where lies...happiness...?
No matter where we flew, there was only darkness and loneliness and pain.
We couldn't find the answers Hermes yearned for. The answers he deserved.
Greetings... You who are my final encounter...
I wish to hear your words... Share your feelings... Know your thoughts.
May we please...be friends?
Yes, I can see them... The memories of a long, long journey...
So many people... The thoughts of them overflowing in your heart...
What they live for, what gives their lives meaning... There was never a single answer.
You gather pieces of happiness, precious and fragile, only to lose them. Then start again.
On and on it goes, until death takes you into its gentle embrace.
That which Hermes sent us to find...was there all this time. On Etheirys.
Like a field of flowers, perhaps. At first a single blossom, it spreads and takes on more colors.
Thank you for guiding me here. To find these words at journey's end fills me with joy.
And so, before I fall forever silent, there is one thing I must do.
No expression of regret will undo what my sisters and I have done. Will restore what we have stolen.
But if you would allow it, I would sing one last song. A song of the newfound joy that swells in my heart...
Of the beauty of light when it shines across a dark and starless sea...
Of a dream that from the soil of worlds now lost to sorrow, life will spring forth once more...
...Nourished by gentle rains and caressed by uplifting winds. A song of hope.
One day, life will fill the universe again. And Hermes will see this and smile.
How, I do not know. But I do know that, where there is a will, there is a way.
After all, miracles happen every day, do they not?
I will create a path back to your ship, where your dear friends await.
Hold in your heart your desire to return to them, then follow my lead and walk forth.
That hope will surely guide you true.
You mean to return. To the world where you are hailed as a hero.
Hear me then. Not as a hero, but as simply...you.
As I learned in Ala Mhigo, you are a formidable foe.
Stronger than any I have faced. Against you, I need bring my all to bear.
I need burn through the candle of my life.
This is the sole pleasure I know, and it is the sole pleasure I have to share.
And so I come before you. To issue challenge and offer singular bliss.
If you wish to walk away, I will not stop you.
You value life. You do not burn yours save for reasons you deem worthy.
Reasons such as those which brought you here. The salvation of a world and its people. The motives of a hero true.
But there is more to you than that. You know this to be true.
As surely as you know the thrill of pushing your body and soul to their limits. Of confronting ever-mightier foes, dancing ever closer to the precipice, wondering if this will be the one to finally, finally...fill the void.
Such pleasures, you seek for their own sake, and no other reason. Is this not so...adventurer?
Acceptance. At long last.
The conflagration of our clash will scorch even the stars!
So you would still play the hero.
No matter. In acceptance you betray your deception. You know full well what we are, and what we seek.
To shine incandescent in death's shadow!
Finally mustered the desire to kill me, have you?
Go on, then. Try and strike me down in this forsaken place. I shall return the favor.
Aye, let us indulge in the only worthwhile pursuit, and burn our lives to their ends!
Come, then!
Come, then!
Come, then!
Hold nothing back! Push yourself to your limit, and me to mine!
Hah! Still fight in you, I see.
Show me your vaunted fortitude!
Soon you will know the full extent of my power.
Ah, my soul...how it burns!
I know you feel it, too. The inferno swelling within you.
Come! Let all creation be consumed by our ravenous fervor!
Do not tell me your life's fire is already spent...
Do not tell me your life's fire is already spent...
Yes, yes! Rise once more! It mustn't end yet!
No, not yet! Not until the last of me is spent!
Burn, burn!
This is my moment! Our moment!
That I should lose again...
How disappointing.
Never have I understood those around me. Understood their obsessions.
Besieged by their banality, the world was a mire of tedium and trivialities.
But in these fleeting moments, there is...a spark. Blinding, brilliant...
Gone...too soon...
What of you, my mirror? Born into this world, bestowed name, bid to seek out strife and adventure...
Was this life a gift...or a burden?
Did you find...fulfillment?
I...
Can you hear... Say...
...must tend to...
Open your... ...please!
Someone...hand...
Please...
You can't leave us... Not like this...
If you do, I'll never forgive you... So, come on! Open your eyes and get up!
Are you...are you with us?
Thank the heavens... For a moment we thought...
After what you've done, you're the last person...
...To be asking that.
Yes, you're alive.
You're alive...
You... How can you keep your promise if you're not here?
Another fine show you've put on, my friend.
A fine show indeed...
What were you thinking, fighting alone? Never do that again. My poor heart couldn't bear it.
Put yourself in our place. If you hadn't returned, how do you think we would feel? And if that sounds harsh...it's because we care.
We tended to thy wounds as best we could, but how is the pain?
That is gladdening. Grievous as thine injuries were, however, I would counsel repose for a time.
Gladdening!?
There's nothing gladdening about this!
When Meteion appeared in here and told us that you were right behind her, we all got our hopes up. But you never came!
And when you finally deign to appear, you're within an ilm of your life!
Damn you! Damn you for making us worry!
Ah, those were cries of celebration.
Anyway, what the important thing is that you're all alive and in reasonably good health, and we mean to get you back that way.
As for your earlier request, I'm quite certain we're in range to make contact now.
Ah, excellent. Let us announce our return at once.
I hope you're ready.
While you were unconscious, we set out from Ultima Thule, you see.
Can you stand? If so, you may wish to see what's outside.
We're home, my friend. We're home!
Is that...?
It is! It's the Ragnarok! They're back!
Thank heavens.
Truly.
Huzzah!
They've done it!
Welcome home!
Rah!
Yes!
Ah...
Oh!
Welcome home, everyone!
Welcome home!
Dearest Mother, Dearest Father...
This letter will be the very last that I write to you from the Rising Stones.
As I commit these words to parchment, I fondly recall my journey as a Scion.
From the time I first walked into the order's former halls...to the time I set forth to forestall the Final Days.
At the farthest reaches of the sea of stars, we fought the battle of our lives...
Fought against despair itself—a veritable maelstrom of it fed by the resignation that dwelled in the hearts of beings not so unlike ourselves.
Full oft have I harbored the same malaise. Have I been brought to my knees, crushed by the weight of sorrow and defeat, convinced that I will never rise again.
However...
I have also known many moments of unbridled joy and happiness.
By this truth do I find hope within; blooming resplendent like the Elpis flower.
And thus do I endure.
Do I look forward to creating more memories with my friends and loved ones.
For from these fertile seeds, yet more hope shall spring forth...
And they will grow to become shining lights that illuminate the dark.
Thus believing, I leave the Rising Stones behind, as will my comrades.
For as we have decided after careful deliberation...
We are disbanding the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.
There you are, Alphinaud!
Everyone is already gathered in the foyer!
My apologies. I'll be right there.
At least...that is what the story will be.
Sorry to keep you all waiting.
What could you possibly have left to do now?
Oh, just a letter.
I imagine it will be a while before we can gather like this again.
So it must be if we're to keep up appearances.
From now on, it falls to the Grand Company of Eorzea and its allies to deal with the realm's crises.
Meanwhile, we shall return to our erstwhile ways.
Retreating from plain sight to take our place in the shadows once more.
Indeed. For the foreseeable future, I expect that we must work independently as we seek out problems that want for solving.
But a day will come when we face another great challenge. And we will face it together, as we always have.
As much as I look forward to that day, I do hope it doesn't come any time soon...
Well, formal association or no, if any of you should require my services, you need but ask.
I'll be glad to keep my lance arm honed.
I'll hold you to that, so you had better keep your linkpearl on hand.
So, you really mean to stay, Tataru?
Someone has to keep the Rising Stones in proper order, and even a super-secret organization requires a super-secret base of operations.
To the rest of the world, it will be naught more than a workshop for Eorzea's foremost up-and-coming artisan!
If you thought our coffers were full to bursting before, just wait till I can devote myself wholly to the crafts.
Plotting to build a mercantile empire to rival that of Lord Lolorito, are we?
I, for one, look forward to your future successes, Tataru, as do I our next meeting.
And with that, I believe it is past time you all made ready to depart.
Leave no preparations undone or words unsaid, all right? Now, off with you!
Go on, Forename! Don't miss this chance to say a word to each of our friends!
After all you've been through together, I'm sure they'd appreciate it!
The salvation Minfilia dreamed for Eorzea comes closer to reality with every step the Scions take. Yes, the world may still be in the throes of change, but it is improving.
I see it happening day by day. And I sit here, praying that whatever new road you walk will bring you the wonder and joy you deserve.
Should you need a rest in between your journeys, do come and join me on the terrace for old times' sake.
I can still scarce believe our battle extended to the ends of creation, but seeing the Scions' mission to completion was both an honor and a privilege!
As for myself, I've spent quite a while away from home, so I think I'll return to Limsa Lominsa for now.
And once I get there, my first order of business will be downing a pint or three at the Drowning Wench!
