The adventurer come to answer my petition, I presume? We're most fortunate to have one of your considerable skill here to aid us.
A creature of unknown origins has been sighted on the island in recent days, and we believe its presence has affected the local fauna.
The animals beyond this gate are the worst affected we've encountered thus far, though we dare not go back.
Your task is to quell any threats you find, and search for traces of the beast responsible for all this.
If you should find anything─anything at all─we would be most grateful if you would share it with us.
Let's get started!
No running off!
Good luck in there.
Please be careful. The animals will set upon you with nary a second thought.
I'll handle this!
Hold still!
Hmph. Is that all?
Impressive.
Come on, let's pick up the creature's trail!
Come on, let's pick up the creature's trail!
Struck down defending its territory, most like.
What have we here?
What have we here?
These claw marks... I've seen their like before.
We mustn't let any more creatures come to harm.
It's starting to feel like a proper hunt!
What manner of beast could it be?
I see no tracks that match those claw marks...
Such marks would be too common in any case.
There has to be a clue here somewhere...
How large do you suppose it is?
The beast has feathers, eh?
What's this?
What's this?
Feathers... But did they belong to the predator or the prey?
So, how do you prefer our prey? Roasted or raw?
You presume it's even safe to eat...
So many strange plants you have here.
Focus. We've no time for picking flowers.
Ugh, that smell...
Ugh, that smell...
Still fresh. Whatever this beast, it cannot be far.
Still fresh. Whatever this beast, it cannot be far.
Careful!
Do you suppose they're upset we disturbed their home?
Who knows? But if they're spoiling for a fight, then they've got one!
Let's head back and report what we've found.
You said the beast is close?
Even so, we should speak with the researchers first.
Powerful wings and razor-sharp talons... Worthy prey!
What is that thing!?
