Your party is assembled, then?
Aye, and ready for what lies ahead, I trust. Lest there be any confusion, though... The tower across the water is to be the scene of the exchange─that, and whatever else Asahi has planned.
But regardless of the ambassador's intentions, we will bring our people home. Yugiri─you are to evacuate the conscripts at the first sign of trouble.
Yes, my lord.
We, meanwhile, shall cover their escape, and lend what support we can.
Your ship awaits you at the castrum's loading docks. She will see you safely home.
Then all stand ready to play their part. Come! Let us be about it!
At last, the hour has come. The conclusion to these negotiations will mark a new beginning for Doma and the Empire─a first step on the road to peaceful coexistence!
Indeed. We are ready to proceed with the exchange when you are.
Forgive my curiosity, Ambassador, but is there a purpose to these containers you bring with you?
Oh, the supply crates? They are filled with materials we hoped might be of use in Doma's restoration. I meant to gift them to you at our last meeting, but we had so much else to discuss...
How very generous. I confess, I had not expected such compassion, welcome though it is.
...But then I was also surprised by the news that one of our captives had delivered herself into your custody ahead of time─a minor discrepancy I shall overlook in the spirit of the occasion.
Are you perhaps referring to me, Lord Hien?
Yotsuyu.
Orphan of the Naeuri, widow of Sashihai...
...And acting viceroy of Doma! You and your people are mine to govern; mine to punish!
Well, well. It would seem your shattered mind is mended. As per our agreement with the ambassador, you are free to return with him to the Empire.
Your authority as acting viceroy, however, is no longer recognized here.
My position is not for you to decide, little lordling.
All who resist the rule of the Empire must be purged. Such was the order given to me by Lord Zenos himself!
I will reign here in this putrid, pestilent swamp until the last of you has been broken!
This land shall know no dawn. I will spew forth darkness and drown all in eternal night. And high above you I shall shine uncaring, cold and distant as the moon!
What has she done!?
Oh, gods... This is a summoning!
A Doman citizen has called forth an eikon in direct violation of our primary agreement. The negotiations have failed. Abandon the captives, and make preparations to withdraw.
