That thing was no elemental, but a being born of darkness.
The Hearer languishes alone in the depths. You must help him!
O mournful voice of creation! Grant ye this humble stone a soul, that it may wake to life!
You are strong. But are you strong enough to withstand this?
Impossible! Never has the golem been so sorely tested!
That the golem could be vanquished...
That woman is no ordinary adventurer.
Damnation! He has eluded us yet again!
Oh, fancy meeting you here! How are things?
Hm? Whatever are you─
Shhh! More birds! This makes it how many times today? Seven?
Their movements are beyond our fathoming.
Hmmm. Do you think maybe...they're trying to summon their primal?
I hope not, for all our sakes. Yet we must be prepared for the worst.
Withered. The same fate has befallen Emerald Moss.
It is as we feared: Dalamud's anomaly is affecting life in the Twelveswood.
You mean the disturbance in the aetheric flow?
The very same. The Garleans have a lot to answer for.
The imbalance they have created is plunging the land into chaos, just as Louisoix forewarned.
It's no wonder the primals have started appearing...
Time is against us, but there is still hope for the land.
We must hold fast to that hope and fight to the very last.
Agreed!
Waaah!
Ack! Stupid things...
These stupid things happen to be the very latest in Sharlayan innovation! Show some respect!
But they're so uncomfortable and...and...ugly!
If you ask me, they're an improvement over that mask of yours.
<sigh> Hard to believe it's already been five whole years, isn't it?
Already? Five years is but a heartbeat in the life of the planet!
I suppose you're right... Now that I think about it, the Twelveswood's barely recovered at all, and the Gridanians still have the same old problems.
Aye, along with some new ones. Just in case the Ixal and Garuda weren't troublesome enough, the sylphs had to go and invite Ramuh, didn't they?
...Do you ever think about those adventurers who fought alongside us? I do. And then five years seems like ages... I wonder what became of them.
Ah...
Yda, look.
Hm?
Golly! ...And this is what, exactly?
Yet another disturbance in the aether, and freshly manifested at that.
It seems to be emanating from Lifemend Stump. We must hurry!
Are you all right? Your eyes glazed over for a while there.
The good news is that the Hearer is unharmed. Somewhat dazed, yes, but whole of mind and body. The bad news...concerns everything else.
Lest you forget, the Twelveswood is the domain of the elementals; it is by their leave that man abides in the forest and avails himself of its bounty. The ground which the dungeon occupies is no different.
Having no more use for the dungeon, the Gridanians sent a Hearer to offer the place back to the elementals by way of the Rite of Returning, which is essentially an expression of gratitude.
Alas, he failed to complete the ritual for obvious reasons.
While the poor soul cannot be blamed for this, the fact remains that unless the elementals are given their due, they may well consider it a slight. And the very last thing the Gridanians can afford to do in these uncertain times is risk alienating the Twelveswood's eternal guardians.
But you have more than done your part. We shall see the Hearer to safety, and send for his peers to finish the rite.
In the meantime, please make your way outside and report to Alestan.
Ah, but where are my manners?
I am Papalymo, and the tactless woman beside me here is─
Yda!
Papalymo and I are surveying the Twelveswood together!
Pleased to meet you!
Yda, give me a hand, would you?
Wait. There is something...familiar about you. Could it be that you are...?
N-Never mind. Doubtless my eyes are playing tricks. Till we meet again!
All this happened inside Spirithold? Twelve preserve us...
Who was that masked mage, and by what dark ambition is he driven? So many things shrouded in mystery...
Well, I shan't find any answers on my own. I must needs discuss this with Galfrid. The matter warrants a full investigation, if I am any judge, and that shall certainly be my recommendation.
Your courage has saved many lives this day, adventurer. For this you have my deepest gratitude.
Pray return to Gridania and seek out Miounne.
I understand she wishes to thank you for your efforts on our behalf.
Welcome back, Forename. A little bird tells me that the Hearer and his party owe you their lives.
A tale for the tavern if ever there were one! ...It is only a shame that I must ask you not to tell it─for the time being, at least. Do I make myself clear?
Until the Hearers have made their will on the matter known, it would be best to avoid unsettling people with stories of walking statues.
Now then, you must have suitable recompense for your valiant service.
For the first half of your reward, I give you leave to make use of the accommodations here at the guild.
Arrangements have been made, so all you need do is speak with Antoinaut whenever you crave the comfort of a firm bed and a soft pillow.
For the second half of your reward, I offer you another path to fame and fortune: guildleves.
Guildleves are records of the various requests we receive from the citizenry. They outline all manner of tasks which ambitious young adventurers like you can elect to undertake.
Gontrant is our guildleve official, or “levemete,” here at the Carline Canopy. I have spoken with him regarding your knack for solving challenging problems, and he is eager to make your acquaintance.
By the way, have you perchance heard about the coming festival? It is truly a splendid occasion, looked forward to by young and old alike, and one I heartily recommend that you take the time to enjoy.
Don't be too disappointed if the recent troubles cast a shadow over proceedings, however. I fear nothing short of the mysterious interloper's apprehension can prevent that...
But we were talking about you, Forename. You have made Mother proud. I expect great things of you, young lady!
How is my favorite fresh-faced adventurer? Oh, do not scowl so─I speak out of habit. You've come a long way since first you walked through my door, and I'll not deny it.
As a matter of fact, I think it's about time you made yourself useful at Bentbranch Meadows in the Central Shroud.
Unlike the recruits you see at the Bannock, the men and women out at Bentbranch are fully occupied with their own work. As such, I imagine there are more than a few who would welcome the assistance of a rapidly maturing adventurer like yourself.
Bentbranch is also home to a very usefully situated aetheryte. It is, in other words, the perfect place for you to begin the next stage of your journey as an adventurer.
And what better time than the present!? Leave the city via the Blue Badger Gate, and continue to the southwest until you come to a bridge.
Cross it, and when you spy an aetheryte in the distance, you may congratulate yourself on having successfully found Bentbranch Meadows.
If you so fancy, you may also make use of the chocobo porter service, doubtless the safest way to get to your destination. Chocobokeep Cingur should not hesitate to lend his birds to a capable adventurer like you.
Oh, and be sure to introduce yourself to Keitha, the head chocobo wrangler, when you arrive.
