You'll forgive us our precautions, but we couldn't be sure who had crossed the barrier. We see you now for who you are, though─the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.
Now, I know you would not have come all this way unless you had something important to discuss, and I'm eager to hear what it is you have to say...
But let's not do this on our doorstep, eh? Come with me.
Allow me to welcome you once more to Rhalgr's Reach, our humble headquarters.
My name is Conrad Kemp, and I have the dubious honor of overseeing operations here.
It is a pleasure to meet you, Master Kemp. I am Alphinaud Leveilleur, of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, as are my comrades.
Before I speak of our purpose here, pray allow me to thank you for sheltering Yda─forgive me─Lyse and Papalymo at great risk to yourselves.
Now, now, there's no need for that. They risked their necks for us enough times. 'Twas the least we could do.
I-I wanted to... I mean, about the mask and...
Ahhh, don't fret over that. You're not the first person to take up arms against the Empire under a false name. We'd do the same if we had any sense....My condolences for your loss, child.
...Papalymo laid down his life to save us─to give us a chance to make a better future for ourselves.
There will never be a better time to drive the Garleans from our lands. But we have to take the lead on this─we can't leave it to fanatics like Ilberd.
More than a few of our people were taken in by his promises. Followed him all the way to the Wall. Good men and women who never came back.
When M'naago told us what had happened─how the bastard had made sacrifices of them for his twisted ritual─by Rhalgr, it filled me with an unholy fury... But what's done is done. Best we can do now is see that it wasn't all in vain.
That is why we are here today, sir─to see that some good comes of this tragedy.
On behalf of the Eorzean Alliance, we do hereby extend a formal offer of military assistance to the Ala Mhigan Resistance.
Do you, now? Well, go on then. I'm sure there's more to it than that.
...So that's the way of it, eh? The Alliance, hoping to avoid a direct confrontation with the superior forces of the Empire, wishes to engage them by proxy with our vastly inferior ones?
My comrades and I must confer on your proposal. A moment, if you please...
Of course, Master Kemp. Take all the time you require.
So...it would seem we find ourselves with a surfeit of free time─
Ah, forgive me. You are free to look around Rhalgr's Reach. In fact, I would encourage you to do so. It'll give you a better grasp of our current circumstances.
Thank you, Master Kemp. I believe we will do just that.
Let us make the most of this opportunity and assess the Resistance's capabilities.
Free to poke our noses wheresoever we will, eh? I like the sound of that.
Well, I already know this place inside out. I can show you around if you like, Forename?
Great! Let's get started.
I'll bet you think the Resistance is mostly made up of Ala Mhigan Highlanders like me, but the truth is that we don't even account for half.
We've got Hellsguard from all the way over by the Spine in here, and plenty of Seekers of the Sun like Naago.
There's even some beastmen─well, beastwomen, I suppose─like that one over there. She's an Ananta. They've been with us for a while now.
Well, one of the smaller factions has. The rest won't have anything to do with us. We're no different from the Garleans to them.
They keep to themselves, spending all their time crafting. Ananta make the most amazing jewelry, by the way. They use magicks to twist metals and crystal into shapes you wouldn't believe. It's a pity people hardly ever get to see their work. But then most don't even know they exist.
That's enough about them, anyway. Let's take a closer look at the statue of Rhalgr, shall we?
Pretty awe-inspiring, isn't it? The breaker of worlds, who guided our ancestors to these lands all those centuries ago.
Yda used to tell me the story on stormy nights. She wanted me to understand. To remember...
“At the end of the Fifth Astral Era, when the waters rose higher and higher, people all across Eorzea beseeched the heavens for a sign. And lo, a burning star appeared in the eastern sky, and led the way to these mountains of Gyr Abania...”
“They who were saved by His grace pledged to honor and revere Him. To devote themselves to great works without and within...”
“A storm of blood approaches fast,Hells open, Heavens weep.For no one soul doth lie beyondThe measure of His Reach.”
That last part was inscribed on this stone by a monk of the Fist of Rhalgr. Yda explained it to me: “A day will come bringing strife and sorrow that none may escape. Waste not these precious hours, but in quiet preparation make strong the body and mind.”
I don't know if that “storm of blood” is finally upon us. But if it is, I have to believe that everything we've been through, everything that has led us to this point, will see us through in the end.
...Agh! Sorry. That was all a bit melodramatic, wasn't it? Let's keep moving, shall we? Off to the infirmary!
This is the infirmary, as you can probably tell. Here's where the Resistance healers patch up the wounded and tend to the sick.
No matter how carefully we planned our operations, casualties were inevitable. It's a sad thing to think about, but...it's also important to remember the cost, as Conrad would say.
We should go. I'll show you the aetheryte plaza next.
When you've seen one aetheryte, you've seen them all, right? Not quite. This one's an older design, dating back decades, to when the Fist of Rhalgr was still here.
It may look a little different, but it works just as well as any other. I'll show you where the sutlers are next─but don't forget to attune to the aetheryte before we go!
Arms, armor, potions─you name it, these folks've got it. The Resistance would be in a bad way without brave merchants to keep it provisioned.
If you're short on anything, or you need something repaired, these are the people to speak to.
Oh, Alphinaud and Alisaie are here. Why don't we see how they're getting on?
Come to take the measure of our friendly neighborhood merchants?
They're a bold lot, that much is plain. If the imperials found out they were peddling their wares to the Resistance, they would be lucky to escape with their lives.
'Tis a gamble, aye, and I admire their courage. But their motives could hardly be said to be altruistic...
Ah, here you are. I've been looking all over for you.
We've finished discussing your proposal, and we're ready to receive you all back at the tent.
I've sent someone to fetch Y'shtola and Krile, so if you'd like to follow me...
Thank you all for waiting. We have reached a consensus.
I, Conrad Kemp, do hereby accept the Eorzean Alliance's proposal. You must understand, however, that our cooperation comes with certain caveats.
Those caveats being...?
I take no joy in this, just so you know. Were it within my power, I'd offer you more assistance.
But the Resistance is far more fragmented than you realize. The men and women in my care belong to but one of many factions.
Simply put, I can only speak for the people of Rhalgr's Reach.
Now, I have every intention of appealing to the others, and I expect many will agree─but it will take time, and I cannot guarantee universal support.
Understood. I shall see that the Alliance is under no misapprehensions as to your position.
Much obliged...but that's not the whole of it. As you can imagine, the loss of those who cast their lot with the Griffin left us short on numbers.
Some of our most trusted veterans died at the Wall, and we've had to fill their posts with the young and inexperienced. Frankly, everything's in a right bloody mess.
Oh, we'd be more than happy to help you get back on your feet. If we're going to work together, we'll be doing ourselves a favor!
Well, there's no shortage of work to be done, that's for sure. We're in dire need of new blood too.
Y'shtola and I could lend a hand in the infirmary. From what I saw, they could do with a few more healers.
Very well. I, for my part, shall return to the Rising Stones. I am certain there are others among the Scions who would welcome the opportunity to fight for Ala Mhigan liberation.
Um... Is there anything else we can do to help?
I had something else in mind for you lot. M'naago and Meffrid will tell you more.
Understood. We won't let you down.
Right, then. M'naago and Meffrid are to be our keepers.
Knowing naught of what they require, one task is as good as the other. Make your choice, Forename.
After you, Forename.
If you don't mind, I was thinking of staying here and assisting Meffrid with the training of the new recruits...
Before we begin, I'd like to thank you and the Scions again for patching me up after I bled all over your floor. I owe you my life, and I won't forget that.
Furthermore, it was rude of me to run off without saying a word. It's all well and good me claiming my duties here couldn't wait, but a parting thank-you was the very least you deserved. My apologies.
And...thank you. Now, to business.
Commander Kemp's entrusted me with a formal reply to be hand-delivered to the Alliance leadership. It covers everything we discussed, as well as detailing the disposition of our forces.
What I need is an escort─one or two men at most, so we can make it to the Wall swiftly and without attracting undue attention.
Very well. I shall join you in this.
General Aldynn commands the forces at Castrum Oriens. It should be simple enough to see it into his hands.
Great! That's just what I wanted to hear! When you're ready to depart, meet me at the pass leading out of the Reach.
Got everything you need? Good. Then let us be off.
Quiet! ...Hear that? That was a ceruleum engine backfiring. Imperials.
Ye gods, you have preternatural senses. I didn't hear a thing.
When you grow up hunting in these lands, you learn to discern the sounds that could mean life and death, be they of a predator or a patrol. From what I'm hearing...we have a seven-man patrol augmented with a single magitek armor. Wide search pattern. Divided into two─no, three teams. I don't think they know we're here...
It's risky, but we should split up and try to take them all by surprise at the same time. We don't want them calling reinforcements.
Three teams, three of us. Nothing for it, then. Where are they?
Head north. You should see them long before they see you. I'll deal with the ones to the south. The armor should be just to the west─Forename's best equipped to deal with that. We attack in five─that should be enough time to get into position. Rendezvous on the west bank after. Any questions? No? Then good luck!
It looks like everything went to plan. Not that I'm surprised─the three soldiers I faced didn't put up much of a fight.
Most of the imperials we get out here are conscripts from other provinces with little training and even less conviction. It's grim work, killing men and women like that, but don't doubt that they'd do the same to you if the roles were reversed.
And don't you dare pity a man in armor. Conscript or no, a soldier piloting one of those can kill a dozen good men in the blink of an eye. Not that I need to tell you that, after what happened at the Wall...
Right. I believe we've rested long enough. We should resume our journey before someone notices their missing patrol.
...We're clear. Only Alliance patrols ahead.
You said the forces at Castrum Oriens were under the command of Flame General Raubahn Aldynn, did you not?
By Rhalgr! The Bull of Ala Mhigo himself! I never dreamed I'd have a chance to meet the legend...
It is good to see you again, my friends. I hope you are here to tell me you have made contact with the Resistance?
We are, General.
Allow me to introduce M'naago, of Rhalgr's Reach.
At your service, sir! And may I say what an absolute honor it is to stand before the Bull of Ala Mhigo!
These are not the bloodsands, girl. You and I are but soldiers on a battlefield fighting for the same cause.
A-As you say, General!
Ahem. On behalf of Commander Kemp of the Ala Mhigan Resistance, I present to you our formal response.
...Good. I am glad we have reached an accord. Though I was not aware you had suffered such losses.
Aye... Some of our finest took part in the Griffin's doomed assault, and we've been struggling to find new recruits ever since.
The massacre has cast a pall over the whole Resistance, and many who might once have been open to joining us have since thought better of it.
After all of the Griffin's false promises, one can hardly blame them. They have no desire to give their lives for a lost cause.
We will not lie to them. This is war, and lives will be lost. Yet what we offer is not the fever dream of a madman, but true hope.
The people need proof of this, Father. Let us show it to them.
I say we stand shoulder to shoulder with our new allies and engage the Garleans in open warfare. The Resistance must demonstrate that they can hold their own against imperial regulars, and with our assistance, I am confident they can do just that.
If we can achieve even a token victory, I believe it will serve to rekindle the hope of the Ala Mhigan people, and inspire them to rise up once more.
Aye, aye... Once word spread that we'd won a battle against the Garleans, I wager we'd have new recruits flocking to us from malms around. The question is, when and where do we strike?
I'm glad you asked. I have a plan...
Our scouts recently informed me of an interesting development at Castellum Velodyna. Namely, the arrival of a shipment rumored to have come from the research and development facilities near the capital, containing prototype magitek armor.
It is our assessment that this armor is to be field-tested here, most likely against Alliance forces. Mayhap before the day is out.
Damn it all, more magitek weapons? That's the last thing we need!
Your concern is not unwarranted, but we needn't despair just yet. The shipment is thought to have contained a single heavy unit and one or two support units. With a well-laid ambush, we are confident we can destroy them all, hindering their development and delaying future deployment.
And should we carry this out as a joint endeavor with the Resistance, they will have their rallying cry.
It would mean dropping all pretense about the Alliance not wanting to go to war with the Empire...but you'd have a lot more folk willing to stand up and fight if they knew they weren't alone. And you were going to have to do it eventually anyway.
Exactly. And so what I propose is simple: we harry their patrols to bait them into bringing their prototype weapons to East End, where our Resistance allies will take them from behind.
Simple indeed, and well within our capabilities. I see no reason to delay, especially if a field test is imminent. What say you?
Assuming the vice marshal's intelligence is accurate, I agree with his assessment and fully support his plan. I shall notify my comrades at once.
Understood. I shall have one of my men bring you the details of the plan anon.
And we for our part will be fighting with the Alliance, yes? I somehow doubt you were intending to sit this one out.
We've been careful to avoid needless shows of force this side of the Wall. But that's all about to change─and when it does, you may be sure they'll send their new toys out to entertain us.
I would ask you to participate in this operation...but from that look I see it is a foregone conclusion. My thanks.
Per Pipin's plan, we need to turn East End into an imperial graveyard. You're a dab hand at this, and I'd be a fool not to use you.
Head to this spot on your map─right here, aye. A patrol should be along shortly. Deal with them, then rendezvous with the rest of us at this location. Go well, Forename.
All went to plan, then? Good.
Our scouts report that a unit escorting the prototype weapons has left Castellum Velodyna. The Resistance is already in position, so we have but to wait for our guests to arrive.
Things looked grim for us after Carteneau, didn't they? Oh, how they doubted us... Yet here we are, right as rain, with fancy new toys to put through their paces...
Bwahahahaha! It's like all my namedays have come at once!
Well, well, well! If it isn't Garlond's little troublemaker! Heh heh heh! I can't wait to see the look on Zenos's face when I bring him your head!
That is, if my secret weapons here don't grind it into mush! ATTAAACK!
Adders, Flames, deal with the escort! Leave the armor to Forename!
Bugger me! Is that General Aldynn!? Bwahahaha! A chance to get my revenge on Forename, and test our new weapons, and kill an Alliance commander! Ohhh, it doesn't get much better than this!
One would almost think he harbored a grudge against you, Forename. Whatever did you do to him?
Hurry up and KILL THE BASTARDS! We've got 'em outnumbered!
What are you idiots doing? Give them everything we've got!
There's no end to them... I'm here if you need healing, Forename!
Looks like there's only the one prototype. Whatever else we do this day, I want it destroyed!
Keep it up, lads! That thing won't take much more!
Enough! We have secret weapons of great power, don't we? Let's bloody well use 'em!
On your guard, Forename! He's up to something!
Damn it all! Haven't we got anything else!? More armor or weapons or something!?
More of them!? I'm going to have to have a word with our scouts...
This can't be happening! Not again!
He who fights and runs─ What the─? Who in the hells are you lot!?
For Ala Mhigo! Let none escape!
We have them now! Forward! Forward!
You think you've won, eh? Heh heh heh... THEN WE GO TOGETHER!
