Oh, there's no need to worry─Halric's safe and well. He's been showing good progress, and likes to go for walks of late.
Though his steps usually bring him to this particular spot...
Oh? I wasn't aware he had family here.
He doesn't. It's Tesleen. Her sword, that is.
We buried it here in her honor.
So he remembers...
What brings you back so soon, out of interest? I didn't think the next round of treatments was due yet.
Uh...no. It isn't. Look─I realize this is sudden...but I've come to say good-bye. It's time for me to return home.
But rest assured the treatments will continue. Beq Lugg will come to oversee them in my stead.
I see... You did mention that you and your friends were searching for a way home.
Needless to say, we'll be sorry to see you go─but I know everyone will be happy for you. Truly.
Happy and grateful. You've done so much for us. Achieved what none of us dared hope was possible.
And we'll see to it that your good work continues, and that no more poor souls are buried here before their time.
So rest easy, and take care. We wish you every happiness.
Thank you. I will miss you all.
But it isn't time to say our farewells quite yet. So if there are any tasks that need doing─hunting beasts, fetching water, and what have you─just say the word.
I mean to make use of every last moment here. After all...
The time left to you...is precious...
That's right, Halric... That's exactly right.
Those words will guide you true. So never forget them.
And neither will I.
What? I'm not crying! I just have sand in my eye, that's all.
...Ahem. As I mentioned, I mean to stay here as long as possible. In the meantime, perhaps you could go and look in on the others?
Alphinaud, for instance. If anyone is crying, it will be him!
Oh... Oh, Alphinaud...
Please, Lady Chai, dry your eyes!
The thought of never seeing you again... It's more than my poor heart can bear!
Oh, it's you. As you can see, Alphinaud has broken the news.
I don't know how to console her. She thinks we'll be lost without him.
'Tis more than I deserve. Yet I am truly grateful, and will see that she knows as much.
Indeed, my friend. Nothing unsaid.
You'll never let me forget it, will you. I'll have you know I completed the promised painting in the end. Be that as it may, there are times only words will suffice.
Lady Chai, I have a confession to make.
On the day we ousted Lord Vauthry, when I revealed the truth of his tyranny and your complicity in his crimes, I did so with great trepidation. Not out of fear that you wouldn't listen, but that you might never recover.
There was a time when I too, in my hubris, believed myself worthy to lord it over others. And when the lie was laid bare─when I was forced to confront the cost, the lives lost─it all but destroyed me.
To awaken from a naive dream to so harsh a reality... I would have understood had you all surrendered to despair.
But you didn't surrender. Far from it. You picked yourselves up and rose to the challenge.
You found a path forward and the strength to walk it─and to keep walking it─day after day.
But what struck me is how much faster you found it than I did.
...Really? It felt pretty slow to me! But rest assured, we'll make Eulmore into a nation anyone would be proud to call home...eventually.
You can still come and go as you please, I believe? When we have good tidings to report, I may trouble you to be their bearer.
There may also be less-than-good tidings...in which event, I hope I can trouble you for your counsel.
I should be honored to provide it, Master Chai.
Oh, Alphinaud... I know you aren't one to sit still, but do remember to take your ease from time to time.
And no matter where you are, remember that there are people here who are praying for your health and happiness.
Our brave and gentle artist. You have our love, now and always.
And you mine. Please take care.
'Tis a strange feeling, Forename. To stand in the company of our friends, knowing that I will never see them again... I struggle to reconcile it in my mind.
But this I know: I shall cherish my memories of Norvrandt─of every soul I met here─for the rest of my days.
And I shall look forward to your tales of their endeavors.
Forgive me. I realize now that I never asked you what business brought you here. Can I be of assistance?
...Alisaie said that, did she? Well, as you can see, I am quite all right now─unlike her, by the sound of it. Ahem. Perhaps you might consider visiting Urianger next?
Given his conversance with the idiosyncrasies of the fae folk, I doubt it will be an issue, but a small part of me worries that they may not relinquish him willingly. As such, I would feel better if you were to look in on our friend─assuming you have the time, of course.
Ha! That I should have the pleasure of welcoming a guest, even as mine own occupation draweth to a close. What bringeth thee hither, my friend?
So thou wouldst grant the Exarch a final tour of the realm which hath been his home these hundred years? A noble gesture.
As for Master Alphinaud's concerns, thou may'st rest assured that all is well here. Far from detaining me, our fae friends have agreed to assist in the transportation of these tomes unto the Cabinet of Curiosity. Naught more remaineth to be done.
Regardless, 'tis well that thou didst come, for I had been meaning to show something to thee.
An object I chanced to find after thy victory over Elidibus.
Though it hath lost its radiance, 'tis unmistakably a Crystal of Light. One that did, in all likelihood, once belong to Ardbert.
Having been interred with his body, it would have remained upon his person after his possession by Elidibus.
And when his mortal form was─forgive mine indelicacy─consumed by thy foe to fuel his transformation, I posit that the crystal did tumble free.
Save that which doth abide in thee, it is all that remaineth of our friend. And if thou art willing, I would have thee deliver it unto Seto. I can think of no worthier recipient than he─and no more fitting a bearer than thee.
As ever, thou wilt find the amaro in Wolekdorf. My thanks, Forename.
Ah, full glad am I to see you safe and well. Rumors spoke of strange, spectral foes bent on your destruction...
But with the sky returned to normal, I assume all is well again. So, to what do I owe the pleasure of this visit?
Is that...Ardbert's crystal?
So it is. It has changed...but I would know it anywhere. However did you come by it?
...Then even in death, his enemies found a way to profit from his sacrifice. It grieves me to think of his body being used for evil ends...
But thanks to you, his honor is restored, and he may finally find peace.
No words can express my gratitude. I will keep this crystal safe to the end of my days.
Rest easy, my friend. You have earned it.
Your soul? Hm...
Pardon? ...Hm! Very well.
How can this be?
Seto, my old friend. You've grown!
Oh! Oh, Ardbert! How I've missed you!
I'm sorry I couldn't keep you safe... Or even console you.
Had I only learned to speak sooner, I would have told you how much you meant to me. How much I cared.
I knew. I always knew.
But I'm happy to hear it nonetheless. Thank you, Seto. My partner in crime.
I see... His journey continues.
Then I will not yet bid him rest. With you, he may look forward to many more adventures.
It has been a while since last I flew. Perhaps I too will go on a little adventure. Ride the winds, seek the horizon... Yes. I think perhaps I will.
Ah, thou art returned. Tell me, how did Seto receive thine offering?
...Remarkable. 'Twas fated that thou shouldst be the one to undertake this task, I think.
As Ardbert liveth on in thee, so too shall he and his comrades live on in the hearts of the people of Norvrandt.
And their tale, now rightly told, shall inspire new Warriors of Light for generations to come.
Now, assuming thou intendest to continue thy tour, might I suggest Slitherbough as thy next destination?
The task of tidying up one's abode is seldom light work, yet I suspect Y'shtola's is heavier than most. Suffice it to say, a pair of helping hands might not go amiss.
And what is this? Have you come to spy on me?
...Does Urianger truly think me so slovenly? The nerve.
Loath as I am to disappoint, I put my affairs in order some time ago. I've even bade my farewells.
To everyone save Runar, that is. He's nowhere to be seen...
Master Matoya!
For too long, I have remained silent. But no longer. I could not bear it if you were to leave. Please stay! I beg of you!
Runar... Please...
...I jest. At least in part. Ahem. What I came to say is this...
Thank you. Without your wisdom, your strength, and your kindness to guide us, our people would still be lost.
We will never forget you, Master Matoya. Wherever your journeys may take you, you will always be in our hearts.
And you in mine.
Remember that your people's journey─that our people's journey is yet ongoing. Your lives will change, and so too will your dreams. Yet come what may, you need not forsake your time-honored traditions, nor less your beliefs.
But neither should you be beholden to them. For it was with curiosity and courage that the Night's Blessed first triumphed over adversity. New knowledge and new wisdom are ever worthy of pursuit.
Indeed they are. And so, until we return to the sunless sea, we shall endeavor to live our lives to the fullest.
That is well. But however great your strides, there may yet come a day when the challenges you face cannot be surmounted alone.
On such a day...
On such a day?
You may call on me.
Since a means to travel between worlds exists, you can be sure I will find a way to employ it.
And there remain so many mysteries here that want for solving.
Master Matoya!
Runar, really!
Honestly, he's a boy in the body of a man... <sigh>
Anyway, it is time we headed back to the Crystarium. Shall we?
...You still have to take the Exarch to Nabaath Areng? I see. Very well, you can look in on Thancred while you're about it.
His will be a difficult farewell, and I am sure he would appreciate your support.
The path goes through Twine. If you wait there, you are like to meet him on his way back, if not before.
Eh? You too? What is this, my bloody nameday?
I see, I see. Yes, Thancred was here─and Ryne too. They said they wanted to go to Nabaath Areng, so we gave them the use of the trolley.
That's right, the old girl's up and running again! But we didn't just put her back together, mind you!
No, with a little bit of help from Master Chai...
We made her faster!
And stronger!
Ohhh yes, the future of trolleys is looking brighter than ever! Whisper it, but I reckon it might be time─time to reach for the stars with a trolley to dwarf all trolleys!
If you ask me, we'd be better off making them smaller. That way, they can fit in narrow shafts.
But that─ That's genius! Why didn't I think of that!?
Enough. You can daydream in your own time. In case you've forgotten, our priority is to have more working trolleys.
That's why we turned to Chai-Nuzz, by the way─not to make the one trolley we've got go faster. We needed help getting a few Talos back in working order, see.
We were out testing 'em when your airship came down, as a matter of fact. You seem to have a habit of crashing things...
We're back. Our thanks for the loan of the trolley.
...Forename? What are you doing here? Don't tell me the others are waiting for us?
That's a relief. At any rate, we've done what we came to do─which means I'm ready to leave. Or as ready as I'll ever be.
Not to pry, but what's going on? You off somewhere?
You could say that...
So you're heading home. I'm just a simple miner and don't know much about this world-traversing business...
But the young lady here─she'll be looked after, will she?
I'll be fine, thank you. I have a place to stay at the Crystarium, and don't want for anything.
Besides which, I've no shortage of friends I can turn to. Friends like you lot.
So please don't worry. I'll be fine, really.
If you say so...
It being a matter of life and death, I suppose you have to leave.
But I for one would still be torn. If the choice were mine, I'm not sure I could bear to be parted from my family.
No. But it's for the best. Ryne has chosen to walk her own path, and she doesn't need me under her feet.
Besides, I have my own responsibilities, and I wouldn't be setting a very good example if I neglected them.
Hmph. Perhaps not. Either way, I envy you your dilemma.
Well then, young lady... If there's anything you need─anything at all─you're to call on us. It may surprise you, but we can do more than simply offer you trolley rides.
Thank you, Magnus. Everyone.
Shall we, then?
If you've nowhere left to visit, we can go back to the Crystarium together.
Oh, it's you... You're probably wondering why I'm not with the others.
<sigh> It's just...I always knew that everyone would leave one day. And I always hoped and prayed that we would find a way to send them home. But now that the time has come, I just feel...lost. Lost and lonely.
I don't want our last moments together to be sad. I want to hold myself together, just long enough to say the things that I need to say. But I'm not sure I can even do that...
<sniff> Right.
Thank you, Forename. I think we all feel braver with you around. Go on ahead and join the others. I'll be along after I've taken a few deep breaths.
<sniff> Right.
Thank you, Forename. I feel braver already. <sniff> Go on ahead and join the others. I'll be along after I've taken a few deep breaths.
That's everyone, then. We've all said what we needed to.
Even as we speak, Beq Lugg undertaketh their final inspection of our spirit vessels.
When thine own preparations for the journey are complete, thou art to present thyself in the Ocular.
Um...everyone?
I want to thank you all. On behalf of the First.
You, and Minfilia, and the Exarch.
Without each and every one of you guiding us, fighting for us...we wouldn't be standing here now. There wouldn't even be a here. And no words can express our gratitude.
We still have a lot to do, countless trials to overcome─but if it ever seems too much, I'll think of our time together.
The happy moments...and the sad─I will remember it all. And it will give me the strength to carry on without you.
Because you made me who I am. Minfilia. Ryne.
To honor these names and these memories, I will stand with all the people of this land, and strive for a better tomorrow.
Thancred. I believe the honor of responding should rightfully be thine.
I know better than most how much you've grown, and I have every confidence you'll make your people proud.
Gods know, I'm proud of you. I always will be. You deserve all the happiness in the world and more.
Might we also say a few words?
Why, this is...just about all of you!
To see you off seemed the least we could do.
You risked your all for us─fought for a realm not your own. Before you came, we had never known the beauty of the night sky.
Or the joy of your company.
Though it saddens us deeply to bid you farewell, it has ever been our way to send off friends with a smile.
Wherever your road should lead, we shall pray for your safety. And following your brave example, we shall continue to fight for the Crystarium.
With or without us, you've always taken good care of this city. I don't doubt for a moment you'll continue to do so.
Aye, a more resilient people we have never known.
As resilient and enduring as the tower that watches over you.
To the last, we did not question the Exarch about his past. It is only now, when he can no longer tell us, that we believe we know the answer.
We have heard what became of him, and what is about to be attempted.
All will be well, of this we are certain.
How could it be otherwise, when every soul in the Crystarium is praying for it with all their heart?
And so, when our lord awakens, I bid you give him a message.
Tell him he needn't worry about us.
That he need no longer hide who he truly is. That he should live his own life to the fullest.
And that if he should ever find himself reminiscing on the past with a smile, we shall be smiling with him.
Will you tell him this?
Thank you. Please look after him for us.
I am sure you will.
I daresay we have all the good wishes we can carry. Let us be on our way.
Well, I suppose it's time. Are you ready, Forename?
All right. Let's not keep the others waiting.
Ah, Mistress Forename. I have but this moment shown your associates in. Strange to think that I will not have the honor of showing them out again...
But I am informed that you yourself may yet return, and I look forward to welcoming you on that happy day. Now, if you would care to follow me.
Ah, there you are. I take it you are ready for the journey.
The spirit vessels are primed, and our company complete. At a word from you, we shall begin.
Very good. I shall distribute the vessels at once.
All right, then. Pray proceed as instructed, beginning with your memories.
The first step is complete. And all appeareth to be in order.
Well, that just leaves our souls, then.
We're in your hands, Angelo.
It is done! The vessels have received of both their memories and their souls!
I hereby entrust them to your care. They belong to you now. Just be sure to guard them well, yes?
This will work, won't it?
Our theories have held thus far.
But I make no promises about what is to come. Even the greatest mages in history knew better than to transport a soul across the rift. We, my dear, are in unknown territory.
Prepare as we might, we cannot account for all possibilities, and it is in such circumstances that accidents are wont to occur...
Yet miracles do happen. So let us pray, and will our friends home.
I won't stop praying until I know they're safe.
All safely stowed away? I do hope so.
All that remains, then, is to step into the mirror. Go now...and safe travels.
Did it...? Are we...?
...We're home.
Oh! Oh, you're back! You're back! You're all back!
Thank you. My body feels like a sack of popotoes, but otherwise I have never felt better.
That said, I doubt any of us will be fit to travel for some while. May we leave the rest to you?
The vessel beareth our comrade's blood. With it in thy possession, the way will surely open before thee.
What!? But you've only just got here!
Tataru, might I trouble you to brew us all a pot of your special tea?
Ah! And we may require an extra cup.
Yours is a long road, my friend, and it stretches on to places beyond imagining.
With your every step, these grand adventures shall grow more distant and faint.
And there may come a day when you forget the faces and voices of those you have met along the way.
On that day, I bid you remember this...
That no matter how far your journey may take you, you stand where you stand by virture of the road you walked to get there.
For in times of hardship, when you fear you cannot go on...
The joy you have known, the pain you have felt, the prayers you have whispered and answered─they shall ever be your strength and your comfort.
This I hope─I believe, here at memory's end.
This I hope─I believe, here at memory's end.
What is it, Alisaie? Are you all right? Do you still feel under the weather?
Physically, I couldn't be better. Thanks to Krile's ministrations, I'm already looking forward to our next fight.
But seriously─don't you have anything to say about that?
No less impressive than our garments. You've outdone yourself, Tataru.
To give credit where it's due, I had help from a certain fiery pixie who visited me in my dreams. They gave me all the information I needed to get the details just right.
For your weapons, though, I needed a lot more help... Thankfully, our favorite heads of state were happy to place their finest craftsmen at my exclusive disposal.
Oh, and speaking of the Alliance leaders, they all express their “unreserved elation at your safe return,” and promise to come and see you in person as soon as they can.
They really needn't have gone to such trouble─but we'll be keeping these gifts all the same. Do pass on our gratitude.
I realize we haven't taken up new martial arts, nor have I ever been one to set much store by appearances...
But I can't help feeling a certain lack of...I don't know, personal development.
I quite understand. But as you observed, the others had the more pressing need. Rest assured, our turn will come.
If I expend any more aether, I swear I will blink out of existence. I need a bite to eat.
Tataru, a cup of tea, if you would be so kind. And something sweet.
By Mistress Krile's exhausted state, may I assume that the ward hath been restored?
Indeed. We succeeded in weaving it anew, albeit at a slightly diminished potency than when I had Beq Lugg's assistance.
It is no cause for concern, though. The tower is not easily reached, never mind breached. And even should some few succeed, their presence won't escape my notice.
Excellent. Said duty thus discharged, thou art free to go wheresoever thy fancy taketh thee.
Upon which note─hast thou perchance come to a decision? The offer remaineth open.
Well...if you're certain that's what you... I-I mean, if you think I...
Right!
I accept. Henceforth, I shall count myself a Scion of the Seventh Dawn.
G'raha Tia, at your service.
When I was a boy, many long years ago, I yearned to stand tall as the heroes of eld.
But like a fool seeking to pluck the stars from the heavens, my every attempt to reprise their deeds fell short...
