This is the right place, yes? Propylaion?
This is the right place, yes? Propylaion?
This is the right place, yes? Propylaion?
Very well, let's wait a while.
Very well, let's wait a while.
And here we are. Elpis.
Well, well, how rare to receive you in person. To what do we owe the honor?
Oh, just a few odd tasks. We'll be here a while.
You're welcome to stay as long as you see fit, of course. As a matter of procedure, however, I must ask that you kindly remove your masks.
Come now, is this truly necessary? Surely you can tell who we are...
Who you are, perhaps, but I am far less infamous. Regardless, if we do not follow protocol, 'tis our hosts who would be held accountable. So please, do favor us with your handsome face.
...Satisfied?
I thank you for your cooperation. You are free to go about your business.
By the by...you see it too, yes?
I haven't the foggiest what you're talking about.
Hmm? That's odd.
It's right here. A bit thin in the aether, but there's no mistaking it─the color of its soul is almost identical to Azem's.
Do you suppose she created it? Rather unusual for a familiar to have a soul, though...
Don't ask me. All I know is that it's trouble─doubly so if it's her spitting image.
So let's leave it be. Come, now.
It's trying to say something...but it's literally too intangible to form words.
Why don't you give it some aether? Spare a snifter of your bounteous reserves.
Who do you take me for?
Why, a dear friend, of course! One who wouldn't let acts of kindness─such as my accompanying him on errands to far-flung outposts─go unrewarded.
I suggest you close your eyes, or this may be...unpleasant.
You may open your eyes.
Oh, you even adjusted its size.
The better to indulge your whim. This way it will be easier to communicate.
How very thoughtful of you. And may I applaud your artful reinforcement.
Without further ado, then... Greetings! I am Hythlodaeus, chief of the Bureau of the Architect.
Sulking beside me is the most honorable Emet-Selch of the Convocation of Fourteen.
And how might we address you, my new friend?
A fine name. And I'm pleased to see you understand our words.
So tell us, whence have you come? The thinness of your essence suggests you weren't created here...
You do not know...or cannot say? Hmm. Allow me to ask a different question, then.
What brings you here?
Well now, the same as us...
Perhaps Azem wished to come too, but had to settle for a familiar.
If she truly wished to be here, then she would be.
Right you are...
My apologies if we've given offense. The two of us can discern the color of souls, you see, and yours happens to resemble that of a friend.
And with your purpose matching our own besides, we jumped to a hasty conclusion.
We are here to speak with Hermes, the chief overseer of this facility, which we also intend to tour in order to gain greater insight into the man's work.
“We,” I say, though this is Emet-Selch's charge. I am here only to serve as his guide.
And I should be happy to serve as yours as well─by way of an apology for the misunderstanding.
Wait, are you suggesting that we bring it along on official business? This thing we know next to nothing about?
If you harbor suspicions, better to keep it close than leave it to its own devices, wouldn't you agree?
Besides, having a mysterious life-form in tow is the norm rather than the exception here.
Welcome, my friends, to the testing ground of creation at heavens' edge: Elpis!
This presence...
Hermes! Visitors─we have visitors!
What secrets are you hiding, I wonder...
In case you didn't know, it's rude to stare. Stop.
This is hardly my first time here, but the scenery never fails to take my breath away. Why, it feels as if you could reach out and touch the heavens!
Now then, to begin our guided tour... Perhaps you already know these things, but for the sake of thoroughness, I shall start with the basics.
Using concepts to give shape to aether, creation magicks allow us to bring forth anything we desire, be it inanimate objects or living beings.
Anyone may conceive of concepts, but they must all undergo evaluation at the Bureau of the Architect.
As part of that process, living beings and certain arcane entities may be sent here to Elpis for in-depth observation and study.
Heh heh, a fascinating facility, isn't it? I daresay you will enjoy touring it with us.
Now then, our friend Hermes. Aside from overseeing the facility, he also conducts his own research.
Chances are he will be at the main observation hub, so let us seek him out there first.
Attired as you are, however, you stand out a little too much. Our dear Emet-Selch wishes to keep a low profile for his errand, so...
Do you know how to make a robe? The basic concept will do.
No? In that case, Emet-Selch─
No. Your whim, your responsibility. You're getting not another thimble of aether out of me.
<sigh> The way he scrimps sometimes, you'd think he wasn't a nigh-bottomless font of magic...
Very well, I shall make the robe, but perhaps you can assist. Come, let us search for the requisite material.
No means no. Just be grateful I'm even willing to wait.
Yes, these creatures should suffice.
An aetheric rope. I want you to use it to capture, shall we say, two petaloudai.
There are three species here, I believe. Any two different kinds should serve.
Now, I should mention that the strength of the rope is tied─no pun intended─to the strength of its user.
As your aether is still thin compared to ours, you'll need to weaken the petaloudai first. Good luck!
Remember, it's a pair of petaloudai we require. Any two different kinds should serve.
You've caught the petaloudai? Come, come, let us see.
Yes, these fine fellows will do nicely. And now for a spot of reversion...
...There! It's ready!
It's nothing fancy, but then we're trying not to stand out. Try it on for size.
Well, not just like that. You need to revert them to their constituent aether first.
Lest you wonder why I asked for two species, it is due to the difference in their aetheric balance. Blending them allows us to produce garb with superior aetheric stability.
Oh it's fine, there's no one around to tell us off. And besides, we can always make more petaloudai. They need only a tiny amount of aether.
It may take some effort to get the form and composition right, but anyone familiar with the concept should be able to manage.
Well and good to disguise and educate it, but it won't fool anyone who can see worth a damn.
Fair point, but at the very least it should spare you unwanted attention from casual observers.
Emet-Selch speaks true. Even dressed like us, your unusual nature will be plain to those who think to look.
Should someone question your presence, don't make up excuses, much less try to explain what you actually are. No, best to simply say that you're a familiar.
The question is whose...
Ah, of course─Azem's. If you say you belong to her, people will give you the benefit of the doubt for any and all outlandish behavior.
Exploiting our associate's absence?
For lack of her presence, absolutely. Were she here, she'd have been the first to propose the idea─and you know it.
With that, your story is settled. Let us continue with our errand!
As dubious as it is, passing you off as Azem's familiar is probably the best approach. Should she take offense that others so readily believe her recklessness is to blame, she is welcome to mend her ways.
...Pass as a child in your original size? I think not. Augmented or no, your aether is still far too thin to be considered normal.
If you are ready, let us continue along the path to Anagnorisis.
The place serves as an observation hub and residence both.
Someone there should be able to point us in the direction of Hermes.
Let's see if this observer knows Hermes's whereabouts.
I was wondering what she was examining, but it seems to be the bush itself...
