You would join us in the cull? The Holy See thanks you!
Seeing as you are skilled in the bow, you may help us by thinning out the beasts. I shall mark a spot on your map; pray focus your efforts upon this area.
I shall remain close by, in case you have occasion to employ the song.
Do as you will. Just see that you do not overreach yourself.
Go to our assigned positions, do what we always do─seems straightforward enough!
Not once did Celaine perform the song...
And though the operation itself was a success, her people suffered heavy losses.
Farewell, my friends. Your sacrifice will not be forgotten.
Rest now, O valiant souls,♪Lay down your weary heads.♪Go unto the bosom of the Fury,♪In Whose exalted name you bled.♪
A requiem?
The song to send souls unto the heavens... This is what it was.
I was trying to make you sing a song of mourning? Gods strike me down for a callous fool...
For once, Sanson has it right. Let's show our respects to Celaine's fallen comrades.
You need not feel bad. The fault is mine for not offering a proper explanation.
Men fall far too often in this war we wage. Wishing to spare myself the pain of loss, I've kept my comrades at a distance. Yet I always find myself racked with regret that I didn't reach out to them before they were taken.
Aye, far better to taste pain than to live with regret. There's no need to deprive yourself of the joy of friendship.
I won't. Not anymore. I shall learn to savor the time I have with my comrades...as should you.
The two of you bicker like an old couple, but life is too short to waste squabbling with your own. So cast aside your differences, and have joy of each other's company while you still can.
As for the requiem I sang...it was taught to me by a scholar of Ishgardian history. If there is a man alive who knows the song you seek, it will be he.
Sylviel is his name, and you will find him at Tailfeather. I suggest you pay him a visit. I take my leave of you.
Let us go to Tailfeather, as Celaine recommends. This Sylviel may know the song, and failing that, he may at least be able to direct us to it.
It's the fervent desire to aid our comrades that bestows our songs with power.
It makes me wonder, what sort of desire is needed for a song that destroys all?
It appears Sylviel is presently afield on one of his surveys. We must await his return.
Tell me, Forename, what thoughts have you on Celaine's inner struggles?
...That's some deep stuff, sister. Truly insightful. A pity that's all lost on Sanson─the bastard's got eyes for naught but his bloody tome.
Our mission takes us into ever more perilous territory. Pray see to it you are fully prepared for the trials ahead.
You come at a good time, Forename! Sylviel and his expedition are due to return any moment now.
