To think some thought you ill-suited for the role. How wrong they were.
But come, turn your gaze outside the window, my friend. The rains have ceased, and we have been graced with another beautiful day.
It fades. Fades away into oblivion. Does the world no longer have need of me?
No. I am Elidibus. And I must—I will fulfill my duty.
Sundered though you may be, you fought for the world's salvation. For hope.
Hope...
Ahhh, it swells within me. Empowers me. Now—now I may carry out my mission.
And yet...
Why do I yearn for this? Why do I struggle so?
I shall take her into my safekeeping. If you want her back, you will do as I ask.
Show me your strength. I would take your measure.
I have prepared a suitable arena. You need but ride the flow of aether.
You are familiar with this place, I believe. This...remembered Amaurot.
Proceed to the Capitol. I shall return your comrade to you there.
You speak as if you were disappointed in me. Why?
I am your enemy, and you mine. Our goals are in conflict, and we are fated to clash.
Or had you hoped that feigned sympathy and false understanding would cast your crimes in a less reprehensible light? That I would come to look upon you as a friend?
You who have slaughtered my people. Who would tear down everything we have built.
You do not deny it, then. Very well, let us change the cast of this trial. You will know what you have stolen from us.
But do not imagine I crave remorse. Only justice.
Forward, hero. We shall see how strong you have become.
Let us begin.
Rest assured there are no tricks. You need but defeat the enemies before you.
First, something easy. Those whom a budding hero might encounter at the beginning of her tale.
And I believe I have the perfect subjects.
All too easy, I see, but at least you now understand the rules. Thus will we make our way to the Capitol.
Come now, I made it plain that they were monsters.
Be that as it may, even a monster could be someone's beloved. That is what I wished to impress upon you.
That appearances should unsettle you so... I was under the impression you simply destroyed all who barred your way.
Sparing nary a thought to the possibility that your foe could be someone's beloved.
But come, we shouldn't dwell on the beginning when so much of your story awaits.
Every tale requires villains. Defeat them, and claim your place as a hero.
Well done, champion of Eorzea. Well done. Onward, then, over the bloodied bodies of the fallen.
You tasted many sweet triumphs, yes. But so too did you taste bitter tragedy.
Who could forget the Crystal Braves? That idealistic, pathetic dream born from a malformed creature.
Faces you know and loathe, all. Let your hatred burn, and strike them down with all your might.
