Hail, travelers. This is a most unexpected occurrence.
Oh, um... Hello there. Is this your home...?
Indeed it is...Ah, forgive me. I had forgotten─an exchange of introductions is expected when first meeting those with whom one is unacquainted.
When the vibration of vocal folds was still required to convey our thoughts and intention, “Ea,” I believe, was the pronunciation used when referring to our people.
Though it is not entirely applicable given our present state, you are welcome to use this appellation.
As for nomenclature to address my individual person, I believe it would be pronounced “Coph-coodg.”
Yes. Coph-coodg, of the Ea.
We have encountered beings that communicate intermittently through thought, but never one that is wholly without voice.
I presume we are having this conversation via the medium of aether. Or dynamis, as this space is suffused with vast quantities of it. Fascinating in either case.
I gather your response to my presence is positive, then? That is well, for there is something I wish to ask of you.
Like yourselves, we Ea are aether-based life-forms. Therefore, it may be surmised that your bodies are of comparable biological composition to those we once possessed.
I have a number of queries regarding your subjective perception of the five senses─sight, sound, taste, touch, and smell.
In total, I have prepared one hundred ninety-eight billion seven hundred twelve million one hundred eighty thousand eight hundred and twenty-seven.
Er... That's rather a lot, isn't it?
Ah, my apologies. I have omitted a great many details necessary to understand the nature of my request.
Though we dispensed with our corporeal vessels long ago, we have rediscovered a need for the flesh, and have endeavored to recreate our erstwhile forms. However, all pertinent records have been lost due to the passage of time.
Take for example, the nervous system. It is well within our power to recreate, but we have no frame of reference for sensations once experienced by our people, which may compromise our ability to interact with our physical environment.
And the reason you need to regain corporeal forms?
Why, to bring an end to our existence, of course.
Though “need” is perhaps too strong a word. It would be a simple matter to unmake ourselves through use of aetheric exsanguinaters. But such a death seems...inadequate.
The traditionalists among us believe proper death requires an inescapable sense of impermanence in one's final moments. An experience found only with bodies of flesh.
We should very much like to hear more of your plans. In exchange, we will answer any questions you have to the best of our ability.
Hmm... Such an exchange of information would indeed prove useful.
Very well. To ensure efficacious exchange, I hereby invite you to our home.
Yes. The abode of the Ea, where we traditionalists prepare for our demise.
I presume your consent to answer questions is indicative of a tacit approval of our plans? In which case, your cooperation is greatly appreciated.
I must caution you, however, to be mindful of the Ea wandering the desert. Their desire for bodies of flesh could be described as...overzealous. Now, if you would follow me.
This is going rather smoothly. Not that I'm complaining, mind.
Even so, we mustn't forget their aim is oblivion, much like the dragons.
Though I fail to see why a civilization so seemingly advanced would choose to unmake all they have created.
At any rate, we will find no answers dallying here. Let us be on our way.
They said there would be others, but... I don't know what I was expecting.
Something tells me we have different definitions of the word “abode.”
I should not be surprised their concept of a village is so different from ours, and yet...
The isle of dragons was shrouded in the silence of the dead, yet the stillness here doth suggest the Ea are, by and large, merely sleeping...?
More violet-colored crystals. I cannot place my finger on it, but there is something unsettling about them.
Welcome to our abode. Most of our compeers, you will find, remain idle in their domiciles. Though your quizzical expressions indicate my phrasing is unclear.
I speak, of course, of the violet crystalline constructs hanging from the stone structures there.
You say they remain idle, but what of your work to regain corporeal bodies?
An astute question. And understandable, given your finite nature.
We have no desire to pursue our research, for it is no longer necessary.
If, in our idleness, we are struck by sudden inspiration, we rise to pursue said inspiration to its conclusion. That is why I was present for your arrival, and why I continue to engage with you still.
But while the others are not currently in a motile state, rest assured they would not object were you to disturb their respite.
You need only cast your thoughts towards one of their crystalline domiciles to communicate.
Even should they elect not to emerge, you need but cast your thoughts to the crystals to communicate with the Ea within.
I suppose there is a logic to creatures comprised of spiritual energy utilizing crystals as living spaces, but it is nevertheless surprising to see.
If I heard correctly, the Ea within this crystal says it will emerge from within shortly. Do you suppose they all appear as Coph-coodg does?
Despite my best efforts, mine overtures have elicited no response from this crystal. I can but assume its resident sleepeth most soundly. Or so I hope...
Is it not strange they lack passion to research that which they desire above all else?
If we are fortunate, the Ea residing in these crystals will shed light on this contradiction.
I've tried reaching out to whatever is inside this crystal, but all I can hear is sporadic moaning.
I've tried reaching out to whatever is inside this crystal, but all I can hear is sporadic moaning.
