Hoary. If I didn't know you better─and I do─I'd say you were merely seeking to test yourself against a legend.
Ahahaha, well, mayhaps I am. But what matters the motive when the children stand to learn so much from the lesson?
What say you, Forename? Would you consent to spar with me?
Hurrah! We're to have a tournament! Come on, everyone─we must prepare our gear for an outing!
...Do try not to disappoint them, hm?
Have faith, Coultenet! I shall summon every last onze of my strength to make of this a worthy contest.
The fields to the east of town should prove suitable for our purpose. I very much look forward to our bout.
'Twas good of you to agree to this, Forename. I trust you are ready to begin?
Very well. Let us not keep the younglings waiting any longer!
Ahem. Hoary? Are you certain you wish to fight her alone? That is Forename you face.
What better way to test my mettle? Pray allow me to attempt the first round unaided.
After all, 'twas this hero's legend that led me to join the Scions to begin with. Without Forename to inspire my efforts, I would not be half the warrior I am today.
Your point is well made. But remember: this is for the children's sake as well as your own. Should it appear the contest will end too swiftly, I shall add my spells to your bladework.
Hello! You haven't begun yet, have you?
Yda!? What─ Who are all these people!?
When I heard about your sparring match, I told everyone I could find. Thought you could use a crowd to cheer you on!
Yes, and there are still more to come. When I mentioned Forename's name, the reaction was quite enthusiastic.
Why, my own popularity seems but a sickly shade in comparison! You'd best claim victory, Bringer of Light─your burgeoning reputation is at stake!
Well, our teacher won't be beaten so easily! He's a master swordsman!
You can win, Mister Boulder!
We shall soon see. On your guard!
Day and night I've honed my skills.Now comes the time to test them!
Ugh... Such power!The tales barely do you justice!
Mister Boulder won't lose, will he?
It's not over yet! It can't be!
