Raubahn! Raubahn! Raubahn!
Your Grace, you mustn't! The danger is too great!
Please, Your Grace, come back! I beg of you!
It seems you're the one who needs looking after, Marcechamp!
Raubahn!
Your Grace!
I have kept the promise made.
So you have. And, in turn, so too shall I keep mine.
With your winnings, you have become one of the six most wealthy souls in all Ul'dah. And so, as tradition dictates, Raubahn Aldynn...
...You have earned yourself a seat on the Syndicate! May your new station garner you still greater glories!
I am honored, Your Grace, and vow to serve with every fiber of my being, from this day till my last.
Long live the sultana! And long live Ul'dah!
Words cannot well express what that man means to me.
There are others who care deeply for my well-being, of course─Papashan's love for me is as that of a grandsire for his grandchild.
But upon matters of governance, I cannot turn to bodyguards and maidservants for counsel.
Raubahn, with the authority of his Syndicate position, was the first sword I could wield. His was the only edge which could cut the strings that bound me...
We must make haste. My absence will not go unnoticed by the Sultansworn for long, and there are other places I would visit.
To the Arrzaneth Ossuary!
When the Calamity threatened, Raubahn led the Alliance forces into battle on the plains of Carteneau. And I remained here.
I prayed with all my heart that Archon Louisoix would have the power to rouse the Twelve.
Since that day, I have made a custom of visiting this shrine during each of my little excursions. Here, I seek the blessing of Thal, reflect upon my choices, and ask myself if I am fulfilling my duties as sultana.
You are rightly celebrated as a champion because you have led the line in a hundred battles for the good of Eorzea. In much the same way, I believe the measure of a monarch lies in how she leads her people in times of adversity.
If I am to be a sultana worthy of the name, I cannot turn a blind eye to the troubles facing Ul'dah.
I have chosen my path, Forename. With Ala Mhigo now freed from imperial chains, I finally see a way to aid the refugees.
Already, many displaced Ala Mhigans seek to begin the long trek home.
To facilitate that process, I have made a small contribution─an artisans' school in Rhalgr's Reach for any who wish to learn new trades. Realistically, however, it will take years for such training to yield tangible benefits.
But we do not have years. These people will need shelter and employment if they are to survive, and this time the Ul'dahn treasury shall provide!
Precisely where and how to allocate the necessary funds is, of course, another question...
A wise suggestion. Mayhap a visit to the Gold Saucer is in order. Its proprietor is a member of the Syndicate, and he is one of the few who pay refugees a fair wage.
A wise suggestion. Mayhap a visit to the Gold Saucer is in order. Its proprietor is a member of the Syndicate, and he is one of the few who pay refugees a fair wage.
...Nothing? Hmm... If even one of your worldly experience is at a loss, it would seem I have no choice but to seek out someone more well versed in monetary matters...
I wonder, are you acquainted with Godbert Manderville?
Ah, well he is a most generous man...if something of an eccentric. Let us make our way to the landing, and I will see that word is sent to the Gold Saucer. Godbert should be only too glad to receive us.
I have ridden aboard a public airship before, but this shall be my first visit to the Gold Saucer. I must confess to some excitement!
I had heard descriptions of its splendor, yet I never dreamed it would be so bright and inviting...
N-No! I couldn't possibly─! We did not come here to fritter away the royal coin!
Godbert will be expecting us. Come, let us head directly to the lounge and ignore these...these...gaudy temptations!
I believe this is where we are to meet Lord Manderville. Shall we sit while we await his coming?
