Yes, sir!
Good work, men.
She and her imperial cronies pushed us close, but we were better.
Behold...a respected officer of the Immortal Flames. People looked up to you as one of the order's founding members─one of its pillars. It saddens me to see you fallen so low.
<snort> What would you know of low? You─a spoiled little lordling who has never known any want!
I-I...
People such as you take wealth and birth for granted! You think it your gods-given right to rule over others!
You know naught of our plight─the injustice that we lowborn Ishgardians must endure! To the noble lords and ladies, we are not people, but resources to be consumed!
I did what I had to do to survive─stealing, killing, even whoring myself! It is no fault of mine if fools imagined me a paragon when I joined the Flames!
To hear you tell it, one would think you the only person ever to have suffered.
In case you have forgotten, Raubahn himself was born into poverty─as was I. We lived hand-to-mouth, with little more than the shirts on our backs. Hunger was our constant companion.
Yet never did we bemoan our lot in life, nor did we begrudge others their fortunes. We accepted the hand that we had been dealt─and played it to the best of our ability.
Life was a battle, aye, but no matter what fate threw at us, we took it on the chin and came back for more. Everything we have, we fought for.
How are we any different then!?
'Tis true that we were both mercenaries of lowly birth.
And 'tis true that we both had our fair share of struggles.
But whereas I sold my sword, you, Marshal─you sold your comrades.
If life has taught me one thing, it is that you never betray your own. I would sooner cut off my own arm than raise a hand against a friend.
...But enough talk. You will return to Ul'dah to face justice─and the people whose trust you have dragged through the gutter.
Not so much as a hint of remorse... <sigh> 'Tis well that this sordid business is finally at an end.
A friend's betrayal cuts deeper than steel. We must hope that we have chosen our own allies more wisely than Raubahn chose his.
I have heard. Truly bothersome business.
No, I do not foresee a problem on that front. The main concern is Raubahn─there is no telling what the brute might do.
Have the Blades watch him and the Flames day and night.
You may leave the sultana to me. I shall personally attend Her Grace.
Sever one of the East Aldenard trade routes. That ought to keep Lolorito occupied for a while.
Nanamo Ul Namo... For my sake, pray be a good little sultana to the last.
Captain Ilberd and I have a few questions for the flame marshal regarding the circumstances of her miraculous escape. When we have completed our interrogation, we shall take our findings directly to General Raubahn, and that shall be the end of it.
Your work here is done, my friend─my thanks.
Ah, but I have one last task for you: return to the Rising Stones and apprise Minfilia of all that has happened.
I am aware that the Antecedent held Roaille in high regard... For better or worse, she will want to know how this tale ends.
Welcome back, my friend. I have already received word from Alphinaud.
To think that Flame Marshal Roaille was the Garlean agent... I know not what to say.
Together with Raubahn, Eline lent us much-needed aid at the time of our order's founding. She was particularly passionate about the need to tackle the primal threat.
When we discussed the subject, her eyes fairly shone with determination. Whatever else she may have been, I choose to believe that it was her true self with whom I spoke then...
But now is not the time to dwell on such matters.
I have an important announcement to make regarding our effort to defeat the Ascians. We shall begin as soon as everyone is assembled.
My thanks for coming, friends. Moenbryda, the floor is yours.
By now, I'm sure you're all familiar with white auracite, the miraculous material that'll allow us to capture Ascian souls.
Back at Snowcloak, we verified its ability to absorb vast amounts of aether.
Alas, it leaves something to be desired in the area of stability. The stone can only store aether for a short while before expelling its contents.
In addition to auracite's inherent limitations, we must needs be wary of our enemy's strength.
Our foe draweth upon an infinite wellspring of power. Even should we succeed in entrapping him, the stone will not long contain his wrath.
Meaning that if we want to kill the swine, we'll have to be quick about it.
'Tis our belief that an Ascian soul may be permanently undone if smitten by a sufficiently concentrated burst of pure aether.
The only trouble is, we can't say for sure how concentrated the burst needs to be... Without knowing how much aether an Ascian soul is composed of, we're basically guessing.
Our sole clue lieth in thy struggle with Lahabrea.
During that encounter, Hydaelyn bid you forge what She called “a blade of Light,” a weapon which took the form of a luminous stream of energy.
Based on your description, we believe the “blade” with which you vanquished your foe was composed of aether.
Admittedly, your victory proved ephemeral, as Lahabrea was able to use a Crystal of Darkness to flee into the space that lies between our world and the void.
The fact remains, however, that Hydaelyn placed the means to destroy the Ascians in your hands.
Be that as it may, it would be unwise to assume that She will do the same when next we encounter such a foe.
Quite so, my lady. We must needs find the means to forge our own blade of aether─one to equal that which Hydaelyn did benevolently bestow upon Her champion.
That is all well and good, but it seems to me that producing such a blade will require a prodigious quantity of aether. Whence will it come, pray tell?
Ummm... Oh! What if we had two pieces of white auracite? One to trap the Ascian, and the other to store the aether for the blade!
Nice try, but it's as I said: the stone won't hold aether for any length of time. We'd still need to collect the stuff there and then, sorry to say.
And therein lies the rub: finding a way to create the blade whenever and wherever we choose.
'Twould seem more research is in order.
I'm going to linger awhile─perform a few more tests on the auracite.
And I could do with some help. Urianger, why don't you lend me a hand?
M-Mine apologies, but I am required at the Waking Sands.
Lady Minfilia hath given me sole charge of the premises. 'Twould be unseemly to leave them unattended.
“Sole charge,” you say? So...you're basically alone there, then? Well, that settles it! I'll just have to come to you!
While you were afield, word arrived from the Sharlayan motherland.
You will recall that a survey party was dispatched to investigate the incident at the Isle of Val. What they discovered was troubling to say the least.
According to the report, the isle has been erased from existence. 'Twas as if a hole had been torn in the very fabric of reality.
Aye...yet the mystery endeth not with the isle's disappearance.
It hath come to light that a number of scholars in various other locales were reported missing at a similar juncture.
What's more, they all had something in common with the head of the Students of Baldesion. Every last one of them was researching a phenomenon called dimensional compression─or the “Rejoining,” as the ancient texts call it. I'll be damned if that's a coincidence.
All indications suggest Ascian involvement, but I sense that a force greater still is at work─the entity the dark beings call “the one true god”...
We must pray that my dear friend Krile regains consciousness soon. If she bore witness to the Isle of Val's final moments, she may be able to shed some light on this mystery...
Following the Calamity, the forces of the XIVth Imperial Legion entrenched themselves in strategic locations across Eorzea.
So swiftly did they accomplish this, it was suspected that they had received help. To think that it came from Roaille... My right hand.
There is more. We have reason to believe that Roaille didn't deal exclusively with the XIVth. She also answered to a higher authority in Garlemald.
But this higher authority could not have been the Emperor. By consenting to the Meteor project, Solus zos Galvus showed himself to be more concerned about preventing the spread of primal influence than claiming Eorzea for the Empire. He would happily have seen the lot reduced to ash.
We believe a number of high-ranking figures within the royal household were against the decision, but that they knew better than to oppose the Emperor openly. Of course, this didn't prevent them from making clandestine provisions, in which Roaille played a part.
Alas, these provisions did not prevent Dalamud from falling, and the ensuing chaos changed the face of the realm forever. Yet Eorzea survived.
To all intents and purposes, the Meteor project had failed, and the Empire was left to rue its lack of a decisive means to eliminate the primals. Until, that is, it stumbled upon the Ultima Weapon.
Even before the accursed thing was dug up, it seemed to me the XIVth had the might to overwhelm our weakened armies. Yet they chose to hide behind their walls. Why?
The Black Wolf was wary of making the denizens of Eorzea desperate, lest more primals emerge to bleed the land. The discovery of the Ultima Weapon, however, emboldened him to resume his war of conquest in earnest.
But there was one in Garlemald who believed that van Baelsar's actions were premature─one who stood higher in the imperial army's chain of command. He ordered the legatus to halt his advance, only to find that the Black Wolf had slipped its leash, and that the XIVth now acted alone.
In a bid to bring van Baelsar to heel, he used the agent he had planted in Ul'dah prior to the Calamity to undermine the legion's efforts.
A man who outranks van Baelsar, yet opposed the late emperor's decision to annihilate Eorzea... This could only be the former high legatus of the Garlean Army, now known as Emperor Varis zos Galvus.
So he was Roaille's true master...
But one of several, in actual fact. We've learned that even as Roaille served the Empire's interests, she sold imperial secrets to a certain faction in Eorzea.
In so doing, she helped to maintain the status quo, thus prolonging the conflict. Considering who stands to profit from war, it isn't hard to imagine who her other masters were.
Seven hells... You mean to say that she was a double agent?
Triple, if you consider her services to van Baelsar and the new emperor as separate.
As neatly as these pieces seem to fit, one aspect of the puzzle remains unclear to me.
By whose will was the marshal feeding intelligence to the heretics? And try as I might, I fail to see how aiding their cause would profit either her imperial or Monetarist masters.
Could it be that another hand is at work here? If so, Roaille must be made to reveal whose it is.
Not only have I lost a trusted friend; now I must interrogate her as a stranger.
Not a pleasant task, I grant you, but a necessary one. Unless we weed out the Ivy, root, stalk, and stem, it will simply grow back.
I know that full well. Those closest to Roaille have already been detained, and I will question them alongside her.
General. Pray keep in mind that there may be unwitting abettors among them.
All will be treated fairly─on that you have my word. Those who are innocent have no cause to fear.
You have ever been a friend of truth, General. I hope the unpleasant task of weeding out falsehood will not detain you too long. Though it be for the sake of Eorzea, doubting one's comrades is poison to the soul.
...And with that, I take my leave.
All these years, I've been made to dance to their tune...
How could you, Roaille? How could you side with them...?
...Those cankers who take from this land and give naught in return─who use their power to disempower, and grow fat while the people starve!
I know you can hear me, Monetarist scum! Your crimes will not go unpunished!
One day, I will purge this land of your sickness! Before the eyes of the Twelve, I swear it!
I shall have no further need of you this day.
