For the freedom of all!
A rousing speech, Alphinaud. Or should I say, Crystal Brave Commander Leveilleur?
Please, Antecedent...the title is honorary. I shall not be “leading the troops into battle,” as it were.
We are of the same purpose. Let us join hands, and do what must be done to save this land.
The Scions stand ready!
I'm eager to see what the Crystal Braves might accomplish. This shall prove an interesting time indeed for the Scions.
Yes, I'm listening.
So, our worst fears are confirmed. The entire isle... Such power defies comprehension...
Truly!? Krile is alive!? Thank the Twelve...
...I see. Pray inform me if her condition changes. Yes. I shall pass on your words to Urianger.
My thanks. I shall contact you anon.
When I learned of the loss of the Isle of Val, I dared not hope that my friend had survived. Yet by some miracle, it would seem she has. She's still to regain consciousness, it is true, but better that than death.
Putting this happy news to one side, we must now endeavor to make sense of the readings taken by the survey party.
It appears the aetheric disturbance which accompanied the isle's destruction is of a magnitude alarmingly close to that of Ultima. Could the Ascians be responsible for this devastation as well?
I wonder... Have you heard aught from the Mothercrystal since the battle with the Garleans?
Then She speaks to neither one of us. Hydaelyn's silence portends naught but ill, I fear.
Louisoix... I pray you yet watch over us...
Very good. See that the provisions are prepared for transport. Let us hope that this shipment is spared the fate of the last.
The winds are uncommon fierce this day...
Ah, 'tis you, my friend. You are doubtless eager to hear of our progress on the Crystal Tower.
Excellent, I'd be disappointed to hear otherwise. Of course, “disappointed” is the word of the day, I fear. I'm ashamed to say that there is nothing worthwhile to report.
The Sons continue to probe the Labyrinth of the Ancients, and every day brings new discoveries. Alas, the same cannot be said of the Crystal Tower proper. We've not been able to set so much as a single foot inside it.
You will recall how the Eight Sentinels stood between us and the labyrinth initially.
In like manner, the entryway into the principal spire─Syrcus Tower, the Allagans called it─is also protected by technology far more advanced than our own.
Cid and I have tried every trick we know, but without success. Frankly speaking, we are at a loss.
It is discouraging, but we cannot give up. There must be a way in.
...And so the situation stands, my friend. Until we gain entry into the tower, I fear your talents shan't avail us. It will require time that I am loath to waste, but I have a mind to set my people to scouring such ancient texts as we have on hand.
