Bah, looks like we'll just have to finish the job!
The key! Take it to Raubahn!
My...thanks... <cough>
Slowly, General. You are yet weak from your ordeal.
Nevertheless, we must quit this place.
I should have known. What are clever contrivances to the Warrior of Light? ...Well done, hero.
Ilberd...
You mean to struggle on, then? Very well. If you would stand in my way, I will cut you down like all the rest.
Come, Scions─let's get this over with.
The sultana's assassins are here! Crystal Braves, to arms!
Whatever it takes to survive!
I am no hero─never was, and never will be!
My strength...has left me...
This changes nothing!
It is over, Ilberd! Lay down your arms and surrender yourself to justice!
Justice!? Justice for what exactly? 'Twas not I who assassinated the sultana, boy!
Ere we debate who is responsible for the assassination, I would ask whether an assassination took place at all.
Clever little shite...
If you think you fight for justice, lass, you'd best wake up. The truth is, you fight for whoever bloody well tells you to. Can you not see you're being used!? By the Scions, the city-states, even the Crystal Braves. They none of 'em care a whit what you want─only what you can do for them.
And how do I know this? Because I'm the same─a pawn to be used as my masters see fit. All I ever wanted was to liberate my homeland, and I ate dirt to make it happen. But what have I achieved after all these years in servitude? Nothing! Not a bloody thing.
If we ourselves are not free─free to think and to act─how are we ever to reclaim our homeland? Know this: there is nothing I would not give to take back Ala Mhigo! NOTHING!
You'll not get away!
No, Master Alphinaud. Now is not the time.
I'm but a cripple and a fool, and still you came for me... I'm in your debt.
We are all of us fools of fate, General. But even fools have a part to play.
Rest assured, I was not planning to die till I'd avenged the sultana... Still, your words are welcome, lass.
Know this, Ilberd... There is nothing I would not give to see you pay for what you've done. My wealth, my arm, my life...nothing.
General─are you aware that Lord Lolorito has yet to announce the sultana's death to the public?
...What? No. No, I was not aware of that─nor of anything else outside my cell. 'Tis passing strange, though... I assumed the bastard would make it known at the first opportunity and set about tearing down the sultanate.
As did we all. And it is indeed strange that he did not─strange or perhaps revealing? Now, I have no conclusive proof, nor do I wish to give you false hope...but I have reason to believe that Her Grace may yet live.
What? But how can that be?
Forgive me, friends, but it is not safe here. Let us continue this conversation without.
The General is safe. What news without?
My lady. The guards have been subdued, as per your command.
We have since kept watch over the entrance. There has been no further activity.
Then Ilberd and his minions have fled via some other egress. Scour the perimeter for signs of their passing.
At once, my lady!
