Greetings, madam. The Exarch awaits you within.
Welcome to the Ocular, my private study. We can speak here without fear of being overheard.
I have much to explain, but the truths which I must touch upon in doing so would cause only distress and confusion to the people of this world. Pray keep that in mind.
Now, I am sure you are desperate to know the fate of your fellow Scions.
To put it simply, they are here in the First...
Their arrival, however, was not as recent as you may imagine. Here, time flows at a different pace from that of the Source.
In the space of a single hour in your home world, an entire year might pass in the First─and the reverse could also be true. The pace fluctuates without rhyme or reason, and it cannot be predicted.
That said, we seem to be entering a period of near-equivalence, and thus, for the moment, you need not overly concern yourself with the passage of time.
As for your companions, however... Y'shtola and Urianger have dwelled here for three winters all told, while Thancred's count stands at five.
Even our more “recent” arrivals, Alphinaud and Alisaie, have lived in the First for almost a year.
My intention had been to summon only you, but the art of reaching across worlds has proven exceedingly difficult to master. Thus it was that my fumbling hand closed upon those to whom your fate is most closely bound as well.
As they were not the object of my summons...their transference was...incomplete. Though they may appear to possess corporeal bodies, they are, in truth, merely spirits that one can see and touch.
Consequently, while you yourself will be able to pass between worlds with relative freedom, they will not. Much as it grieves me...they are stranded here, unable to return.
We spent every waking hour searching for a way to reverse the summoning. In the beginning, at least...
As you may have surmised, however, our efforts met with little success. And then we all but abandoned the endeavor once Urianger shared with us the vision he had witnessed during his journey through the rift.
In that chaotic no-man's-land between realms, time and space warp and blend in...unexpected ways. What Urianger saw...was the future. That which would one day come to pass.
In his vision of tomorrow, the First was rejoined with the Source...
This collision of worlds brought about the Eighth Umbral Calamity, and the deaths of countless multitudes.
Amongst those who perished, Urianger clearly saw the fall of the Scions' mightiest champion. He watched you die.
And thus did the Scions embrace their exile, and began searching this world for a means to forestall the coming catastrophe in yours.
Their souls are stranded in the First, yes, but they have fought on, desperate to save their home─and you─from destruction.
Nor have their efforts been in vain: for it was they who finally established that the elimination of the sin eaters will indeed serve to prevent the calamity.
Considering the...circumstances of our meeting, you would be forgiven for doubting my version of events.
And so, before all else, I would suggest you track down your comrades, and hear the tale from their lips.
I shall, of course, be happy to assist in these reunions─and you need not make any decisions regarding your involvement until you are certain of where you stand.
Meanwhile, I promise I will not rest until I have found a way to help your friends return home.
What say you? Have I earned your trust for the moment, at least?
Excellent. You will not regret this.
With that settled, we shall have to see about getting you ready for the road.
Traveling across the rift has no doubt left you weary─I will arrange for a room where you might rest in comfort. While it's being prepared, perhaps I can show you around?
The Crystarium boasts a number of residential districts, but I have been informed that a room has just become available at the Pendants.
Which, as it turns out, is perfect. Our path there will take us past the markets, and I was hoping to give you my own introduction to their wares. Come along.
This is the Musica Universalis, the commercial heart of the Crystarium. Aught you might need to prepare for your journeys can be purchased here.
Ah, yes─you must be curious about the currency. Fear not! The gil you carry will serve you well enough.
Each nation once minted its own coins, but 'twas all a jumbled mess following the Flood.
After much debate, the local merchants eventually elected to revert to the old ways, wherein a coin's value was decided by the worth of its metal.
As for a unit of measurement, we agreed upon the term “gil.” A word borrowed from coins uncovered within the Crystal Tower here.
And as our traders peddled their wares across the land, so too did our usage of gil become common practice.
From what Y'shtola tells me, a standard coin from the Source equates to exactly one gil here─or near enough not to matter.
Our way of life has benefited greatly from the artifacts we recovered from the tower...
...Some of which may be familiar to you.
But I fear it would not be practical for us to provide everything to which you are accustomed. You shall need a means to access the commodities of your home world...
[Are you there, my friend?]
