Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...
Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...
Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...
Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...
Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...
Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...
Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...
Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...
Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...
Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...Daily summary: no abnormalities detected...
It is clear he and his brethren have a keen interest in freeing Zodiark from His prison, and yet they have made no attempt to destroy the brands. Perhaps they prefer He remain hidden from mortal eyes until the final Rejoining.
Perhaps they realize we would never dare bring harm to Zodiark, so long as He remains imprisoned.
Did you learn anything of import?
So it is as we suspected. Maintaining the brands requires a great deal of Her energy and focus─and this cost has grown higher with every Rejoining.
That would explain why contact with Her has become rather infrequent since the Seventh Umbral Calamity.
I too made a rather startling discovery...
This heavenly body we know to be the moon was in fact created by Hydaelyn!
When the watcher said he was created together with this place, I thought he only meant this facility... Truly, Hydaelyn's powers are far beyond anything I could have imagined.
I thank you for affording me this short reprieve...
It is we who should thank you. The records stored here are nothing short of extraordinary.
There is much we could learn of Zodiark and His imprisonment, but perhaps you could offer us more focused guidance. Pray tell us of the calamity that came before and comes now again.
Long ago, before the great sundering, there was but a single world─Etheirys.
One day, from within the earth, a terrible cry issued forth, affecting a profound change in all manner of life.
We were not exempt. Our creation magicks ran rampant, giving shape and form to thoughts of hopelessness and despair.
At first, the phenomenon was limited to a single region. But quickly...so very quickly...it spread and engulfed the whole of the star.
Were the ancients ever able to deduce its source?
They were not. However, the Convocation struck upon a method to predict where next the corruption would manifest.
The aetheric energies which flow through all of creation in the form of various currents.
The currents which course through the land and seas...
Those which flow through the very air...
And those of a celestial nature which encompass both our star and this moon.
Celestial currents... I cannot say I am familiar with the concept.
Nor would I expect you to be. Few scholars of our time knew of their existence.
Their invaluable knowledge helped us to better understand the nature of the calamity.
Like the terrestrial ones of earth and air, the celestial currents form a vast network. But the aetherial distribution is not consistent.
The Convocation soon realized that the inciting incidents occurred in regions where the flow was weakest.
Correlation without clear cause, ultimately. Nevertheless, on closer study, a stagnancy of aether was observed in nearby currents...
And so they sought a means to harness the forces of Darkness, of activity and growth. Thus was Zodiark conceived.
No less a power than a god's could set right the laws of nature and quicken the flow of aether within the star.
Precisely. With the advent of Zodiark, our end was averted.
Emet-Selch claimed that those who summoned Hydaelyn did so because they saw Zodiark's power as a threat. Is that true?
Indeed, there was a faction opposed to Zodiark's creation. But their aim was never to unmake Him.
They understood the continued preservation of the natural order was dependent on His very existence. Until we could identify and address the underlying cause of the Final Days, He would need remain, for His departure would set in motion those apocalyptic forces once more.
Hydaelyn recognized this as well. And so, rather than destroy, She sundered Zodiark, Herself, and the star into lesser reflections, that She might confine Him in this place.
Perhaps She did. But as with all beings, intent is not always in accord with spoken word.
That the two once dwelled as one until Zodiark grew hungry for power, upsetting the balance 'twixt Them...? Not quite a lie, though a rather gross embellishment.
But knowing what you know now, you must surely realize why She might opt to obfuscate and mislead.
Hydaelyn and Zodiark are both constructs of man. Approximations of perfection limited by our own imperfections.
Zodiark was, without question, the more powerful of the two, having been born from the sacrifice of half Etheirys's population.
Thus was it necessary for Hydaelyn to commit Herself wholly to His defeat. Still more effort was needed to confine Him.
Maintaining the brands taxed Her greatly. With what power She dared spare, She cried out to any who might listen, and offered Her blessing to those who heeded Her call.
Though it was likely within Her power to do so, I believe She did not wish to speak of Etheirys and Her history.
Like Zodiark, Hydaelyn's purpose is a reflection of Her creators'. They wished to look to the future, and not linger in a prison of the past.
The Ascians set in motion seven Rejoinings before we came to oppose them. How many more worlds would have been lost had we not placed our faith in Her?
How many more souls living in the present would have been snuffed out for the sake of those long dead?
Well, in light of recent events, I see no reason to doubt your words.
And even if Hydaelyn is not a god in truth, if Minfilia believed that we should trust in Her plans, then I choose to do just that.
Which brings me to a rather important question.
Let's suppose we try but fail to stop this second coming of the Final Days.
Should the Source fall, what will become of the other worlds?
The nomenclature is more fitting than you know...
Bring ruin to the Source, and its reflections will share in its fate.
Ah, it is ready.
This way, if you would be so kind.
A beautiful sight, is it not?
Yes, but what is it?
Hydaelyn knew better than any that Her power was not absolute. Indeed, She has ever struggled to hold Zodiark and His faithful at bay.
She feared the worst, and so made preparations. In the event of His demise, there would be a contingency.
This moon is more than a prison. It is a vessel capable of bearing the people of Etheirys to safe harbor.
You need not go far to find its pilots. In fact, I should be happy to take you to them...
...And fulfill my final duty as watcher in the dark.
The moon...is a ship? Well, now I've heard everything.
It may be true, but others will struggle to believe it. I can scarcely believe it myself.
I should very much like to hear more of this extraordinary story...
The time is come for you to be on your way.
The crater at the heart of Mare Lamentorum, where Zodiark was imprisoned, is not so easily traversed, however.
Let us call upon Argos, the familiar whom you met earlier. He should have no trouble bearing you across.
As Hydaelyn created me as the gaoler, so too did She create Argos as the guard...
It is his nature to appear when needed, and yet he is nowhere to be found. Strange... Mayhap the imbalancing of aether has affected him.
Let us make for the Crushing Brand, and attempt to call upon him there.
You need but recall the path you walked with Argos before, and you will find your way.
If he labors in service to Hydaelyn's plan, I see no reason not to do as he suggests. Shall we make for this Crushing Brand, then?
With a little preparation, it might be possible to traverse the gap on foot.
Then again, it would be a long, long way down if one should slip... Perhaps another time.
So close and yet so far. Does not the harsh terrain remind you of somewhere we've been before? The Dravanian forelands, aye.
A place that rejects the intrusion of outsiders. Where solitude reigns supreme... At the very least, it sounds suitable for Zodiark's prison.
Naught could prepare me for the boundless beauty of Etheirys. Shining, shimmering, amidst a sea of stars.
A blue sapphire, and but one of countless other jewels brimming with life, no doubt...
The place we seek is just ahead at the Chlorophosgrot.
You see, Argos cannot manifest without sufficient concentrations of ambient aether.
You would be hard-pressed to find a greater confluence than inside this cavern.
Follow me.
This entire cave is thrumming with ambient aether...
Alas, any further analysis will have to wait.
Curious... This place doth call to mind Pla Enni, home of the Nu Mou.
The guard of Zodiark's prison, eh? Blood red eyes, slavering maw, and built like a behemoth, I'd imagine. Let's hope he's friendly.
Yes, here will do nicely.
The lunar spongoi draw aether from the ground, which is then dispersed in the air. At present, however, the ambient energies are not quite sufficient for Argos to manifest.
Might you be willing to spare some of your own to help the spongoi along?
Given time, the lunar spongoi would suffuse this space with sufficient aether, but we need not wait if you are willing to provide a helping hand.
Given time, the lunar spongoi would suffuse this space with sufficient aether, but we need not wait if you are willing to provide a helping hand.
A most fascinating creation of Hydaelyn's, would you not agree? Should the need arise, he is even able to create reflections of himself on a whim.
Though I assure you it was no reflection which accompanied you earlier to the brand.
No, Argos was quite eager to be at your side then, as he is now, it seems.
I cannot recall when last he showed such an affinity for anyone. Indeed, I thought him more likely to shy away from you and your companions.
Perhaps it was more than a sense of duty that compelled him to aid you before.
As for your companions...
Unexpected, but greatly appreciated.
I believe we are all ready.
Then let us return outside that you may cross the chasm.
I was expecting something a little more intimidating and less...“man's best friend.”
Dalamud has long been described as the “loyal hound” of Menphina due to its relation to the greater moon...
It seems highly improbable─if not impossible─for ancient peoples to have known of Argos, but now I wonder whether there is some connection...
To whom wouldst Hydaelyn entrust the command of so grand a vessel, I wonder?
To whom wouldst Hydaelyn entrust the command of so grand a vessel, I wonder?
Your destination is the structure there across the Cradle of Darkness.
But climb onto Argos's back, and he will take care of the rest.
Once you arrive, it should not take long to find the ship's crew. The facility is designed to rouse them from their slumber in the event of Zodiark's destruction.
Heed their counsel. Together, you may guide the star and its people to a kinder fate.
This is where we part ways. But know that I shall ever be watching and praying for your success.
Worry not for me. Real though I may appear as you and yours, I am but a part of this moon. A creation of Hydaelyn, entrusted with the memories of an acquaintance long dead, but not forgotten.
My charge of Zodiark has ended, but so long as the moon exists, I shall not want for purpose.
I shall remain, ever watching, ever praying for your success.
Our ally's assurances notwithstanding, we cannot be certain what awaits us on the other side, so perhaps it would be best if we did not all go at once. I propose the two of us cross first while Thancred and Urianger wait here.
Onward!
A malefic aether yet permeates from the crater. Remnants of Zodiark, most like.
Just a little further...
This structure is enormous...though that is hardly surprising given the size of the average Amaurotine.
Apologies for the wait.
Right, then. Let us head inside and...oh?
Most intriguing. A means by which he conserveth energy, mayhap?
Well, I certainly wouldn't want him to blink out of existence on our account, helpful as he's been.
If Argos is to remain without, let us not keep him waiting overlong.
Your presence has been most welcome, but it is not your place to remain here.
Hydaelyn bid you walk free, and so you must, that the light of hope may never fade.
Its scale is reminiscent of Amaurot, or rather, the replica we visited on the First.
Truly a marvel beyond description.
Our “moonship” pilots should be around here somewhere, is that right?
