Wicked white...
Oh no...
Hear... Feel... Think...
By the Twelve...
A starshower...
I─ I hear a voice!
You and all? Then why does it feel like it's inside my head!?
Hear... Feel... Think...?
I hear it.
Me too!
Did I not tell you, my friends!? You are Warriors of Light!
You're back!
What you hear is the voice of Light itself, and it has blessed you with its power. Welcome to the fold!
I'm a Warrior of Light...
I've been chosen!?
Can it be?
Me, a hero...
Wait!
The falling stars─were they your doing? And why do you need Warriors of Light?
What, am I to reveal my plans simply because you asked?
Nay, I think not─though the stars I acknowledge mine. A convenient illusion apt to awaken what little is left of the power that once resided in your sundered souls.
That which you and yours call the Echo.
And an echo it is. Of a symphony. But a fraction of what men, in their completeness, once possessed.
Even those among you who tower over others in the gift have only the faintest trace of it.
But though sundered and forgotten, through death and mocking rebirth, it has persisted. A whisper of our past, burned into your very aether─along with the sight of our end.
Through the rekindling of memory, I have awoken the ability─just as Hydaelyn is wont to do when She has need of new minions.
The Echo hath ever been thought a gift from Hydaelyn─a boon granted solely to Her chosen. Yet thou wouldst claim She merely awakeneth the power, that men should hearken unto...?
...Her voice. Given the perceived simultaneity of Her call and the awakening of Her chosen's capacity to hear it, 'tis only natural that we thus attributed the source of the gift. Yet if, in truth, the Echo is a prerequisite for hearing Her voice...
One might surmise that Her call never ceaseth, such that all who awaken to their innate gift might receive of the blessing of Light at the selfsame instant.
In sooth, we bore witness to this but moments ago. At the sight of the starshower, full many in the crowd did speak of hearing a voice in their minds, did they not?
Just so. And whenever Hydaelyn has need of new servants, She is quick to pluck comets from the heavens, or create illusions of the same.
Why, then, didst thou conjure this vision, full knowing that thine age-old foe would thus claim those awakened to the gift?
“Foe”? You must be mistaken. As you see, I am a Warrior of Light.
And together with my comrades-in-arms, I shall save the world. Just like you.
The more Elidibus reveals, the less I understand. But that he has made a fine mess of things is plain.
He is gone, then?
I've managed to persuade a number of our would-be deserters to reconsider, or at least delay, their departure. But as many are deaf to my entreaties.
Young Theyler and Vonard among them, I am sorry to say. They have quit the guard.
Nevertheless, I wish them well. Whatever Elidibus's plans for them might be, the pair have only ever had the best of intentions.
One can hardly blame them for thinking themselves heroes elect─not after having been “blessed” with the Echo. And it's not as if they haven't shown the requisite spirit.
I quite agree. Though the impetus for their sudden departure may have been words falsely spoken, the men and women in whose footsteps they would follow are heroes in truth. Warriors of Light. Ardbert. Yourself, most of all.
And so I would ask a favor of you─speak with them ere they embark on their journey, and furnish them with what wisdom you can. They've set off for the Amaro Launch, but you should still be able to catch them if you leave now.
Worth the effort, I'd say. If I recall correctly, the Elder Seedseer took the time to usher you out into the wider world, many moons ago.
I...think that comparison rather flatters Theyler and Vonard. But the point still stands. They would doubtless be greatly encouraged were the Warrior of Darkness herself to see them off.
If thou art willing, I prithee go. Thou mayest safely leave the task of unfolding that which did transpire at Anamnesis to us.
You again!? Uh, I mean─it's you, milady! Sorry...it's been a funny old day.
You can be sure we'll take those words to heart.
I still can't believe it─you coming all this way just to speak to us.
I swear we won't let you down. So long as it helps someone, we'll do what needs doing out there─no matter how small!
And when larger threats loom, we'll be ready to face them. You see if we aren't.
We'll be off, then. Farewell, Warrior of Darkness─and thank you.
Do you have business with the Crystal Exarch? Just say the word, and I would be happy to escort you to the Ocular.
Thank you for making the effort. I'm certain your words will be a boon to them.
While you were away, the others told me of your investigation. We have yet to discuss how to proceed, however.
While your findings in Anamnesis Anyder do raise important questions as to the identity of our adversary, we are no closer to discerning his design. Nor do I know of any other potential avenue of investigation.
For which reason, we must needs trust to Y'shtola's ingenuity, and wait for her efforts to revive the ancients' device to bear fruit.
...What if I were to attempt to follow the emissary? Elusive as he is, his plan compels him to court public attention. He shouldn't be impossible to find.
Especially for one of your experience. It does seem worth the attempt.
Then I'll come with you. Safety in numbers.
In combat, perhaps─but where stealth is required, the opposite is true. Happily, I don't plan on getting myself caught, so you've no need to worry.
Nor do I intend to vanish for moons on end. We still have the Empty to attend to, don't we?
All right. Then I look forward to your return.
Then it sounds like the rest of us should avoid doing anything which might prompt Elidibus to look too closely at our movements. Insofar as it's possible, I recommend we limit our activities to the Crystarium.
Speaking of which─Exarch, might I ask if you've made any progress with the spirit vessel?
Of course. We are presently studying the principles underpinning memory transference and, I believe, nearing the requisite level of understanding.
Less hearteningly, practical trials of transference methods suited for use with the vessel have yet to yield satisfactory results...to put it mildly.
But there are still many promising possibilities we have yet to test!
Indeed. Though it may take some time yet, we are well on our way to a solution.
And I shall not rest until one is found.
Though we are all grateful for thine unstinting efforts, thou need'st not labor to the exclusion of all else. If it would serve to lighten thy burden, however little, I should gladly offer mine assistance.
Quite. I, for my part, will do what I can to ensure that the Crystarium continues to run smoothly, in spite of recent disruptions.
Then perhaps I could help? There must be something I can do, even if it's just guard duty.
Thank you... All of you. I shall breathe easier for your assistance.
Of course, on the evidence of the recent past, it will not be long before some new crisis arrives to throw our plans into disarray─at which time your services will be in particular demand. That being the case, perhaps you might take this opportunity to retire to your suite at the Pendants?
A pleasure as always, Mistress Surname.
I am relieved to see you were unharmed in the earlier commotion. Though, if I may─you do look somewhat weary. I presume you will be retiring to your suite?
Very good. Do let me know if there is anything you require.
Mistress Surname? It's Glynard─from the Wandering Stairs. I apologize for calling so late.
A friend of yours was asking after you. You may remember them from that business with the Cardinal Virtues...
