The sky...
It can't be...
What's happening?
It's so beautiful...
The sunless sea...
The Warrior of Darkness has come!
Is that...what I think it is?
The night sky, as it should be.
Who are you people?
You killed a Warden, then bathed in its aether as if it were a spring shower, and now the sky...? The legends are true!
My lord...?
How many years have I waited for this moment...
For the one possessed of Her blessing. For you.
You have vanquished the Lightwarden of Lakeland, and for the first time in a century darkness has returned to the mantle of night.
Without the ever-present Light to sustain them, the sin eaters will have no choice but to retreat.
...Yet our victory is far from complete.
Though darkness has fallen here, the other Wardens yet bask beneath burning skies, feasting upon what little life remains.
Even should it cost me all I have, I would see each and every one of them slain, that this world might be spared from oblivion!
Not only for the First, but for the Source as well! Save one and we save the other! But...be that as it may...I concede it was wrong of me to summon you to this fight against your will.
I swear on my life, I will one day atone for that deed. But for the present...
I beg you stay and see this fight to its conclusion. Cast down the Wardens, and restore Darkness to the First!
On behalf of the First, I offer you my deepest thanks.
I understand there is much at stake here, Exarch, but why do you risk yourself so readily? It must have been a dangerous drain on your aether to summon even one person across the rift.
I do it for my people, of course─to give the Crystarium the tomorrow it deserves.
That is true now, yes─but the city had yet to be built when you first called forth the Crystal Tower.
I'm simply curious to know what prompted you to commit yourself so completely to this particular course.
There are...things which we can ill afford to lose.
And...I sensed from the first that I had a part to play in preserving them.
Forgive me. I fear the events of the day may have taken their toll.
Despite appearances, I am an old man─one burdened with many...difficult memories, some too painful to recall.
Well, then I'm sorry for pressing you. It's a family failing, I'm afraid.
Hmph. One which has served us well, more often than not. Needless to say, we will continue to fight at your side until the last sin eater is defeated.
Come then, my Warriors of Darkness─let us gather the surviving villagers, and make our way back to the Crystarium.
How quickly you have justified my faith in you...
So many lives saved, and the sky itself heralds your success. A single victory in a larger struggle, perhaps, but a momentous one nonetheless!
Now, as for how we proceed from here...
The villagers we evacuated earlier have arrived safely in the Crystarium.
They seem to be accepting their situation for the moment─most folk are far too distracted by the sky to worry about wounds or lost homes.
They whisper and wonder if the Warrior of Darkness has come...
'Tis to be expected.
Forename, I must ask a favor of you. Would you be so kind as to conceal your involvement in this endeavor for the time being?
Seeing the Light recede from Lakeland is a momentous occasion, and many will be swept up in a maelstrom of excitement and confusion.
Should you come forth as the legendary Warrior of Darkness, I fear that, no matter how good your intentions, such an appearance would throw the city into disarray.
I find myself in agreement with the Exarch, although my concerns are more focused on Eulmore.
It may be best if you maintain a low profile until we see how Vauthry responds to all of this.
My thanks. Though we cannot freely celebrate your success, pray allow your heart to be buoyed by the joy of our citizens─a joy you surely brought into being.
Ah, and I must ask the same discretion of you, Captain. 'Tis my intention to share with our people the tale of a great warrior who stood in defiance of the sin eaters. This unnamed champion defeated the Lightwarden, and has since departed for parts unknown, yes?
As you wish, my lord. Your penchant for mystery is nothing new, and I will encourage folk not to question this either.
...Although I expect to be told the whole truth of it one day. About all of you.
With that settled, I shall return to the Crystarium and make an address to the people.
These explanations and adjustments will consume much of my time, so pray take the opportunity to rest and recover from your exploits. And to think, you'll not even need to shutter the windows to enjoy a dark and peaceful night's sleep!
I must stay behind and coordinate the evacuation of the remaining survivors.
And I hesitate to ask after all you've done here today, but could I ask you to pass on a message on your way to the Pendants?
Please let Bragi know that we're bringing in a number of injured, and that any restoratives in the markets need to be reserved for the infirmary.
We should start making our own way back to the Crystarium─slowly, mind you. It wouldn't do to arrive too soon after the Exarch.
I'm staying behind as well. I... There's something I need to check on in Holminster.
We already went through the village top to bottom, Alisaie. We should all take the chance to rest, you included.
I knew one of those eaters, and I can't just... I can't rest, not now.
So please, I wish to be left alone for a while. And that means you as well, Forename─I shall be cross if you try to follow me!
I promise to find you later, when I feel myself again.
Hm, just you and me, then. Shall we?
Well, the Crystarium seems relatively ordered, wouldn't you say? The Exarch's speech must have been reassuring to hear.
On the contrary, there is something jubilant in the air─I have a feeling this night won't be quite as “peaceful” as our hooded friend predicted!
I think I shall take a brief stroll around town before retiring to my chambers. Once you've discharged your duty to Bragi, I suggest you do the same.
Sleep well, Forename. I hope untroubled dreams find you and Alisaie both.
Aye, what can I do for you? Looking to buy a lantern, like every other stumbling soul in the city?
...I see. Well Captain Lyna can rest assured that any potions I spot coming in will be set aside for the wounded.
Hang on a moment, if you're carrying messages for the guard, does that mean you were there, then? The battle at Holminster?
A stalwart lass like you might want to pay a visit to the Wandering Stairs, make herself known...
I'm sure Glynard can introduce you to some interesting opportunities.
