Godsdammit...
With such ease yet again. You did always grow stronger with every battle.
It seems it will take more than those monsters to leave an impression upon you. Or mayhap you simply fail to understand my meaning. Not that it matters. No, I have dealt with countless heroes, and always it ends the same way. No amount of reasoning will bridge our differences─will result in happiness for all. Whatever your reasons may be, I cannot be bound by them. I can but put faith in my own beliefs, and fight for them with all my being.
Hmph, how very naive. If you are willing to compromise on your beliefs, you all but admit that they are flawed.
And I assure you I have no intention of compromising on mine. Come what may, I will fulfill my mission as Elidibus.
For a certainty. I am Elidibus, and come what may, I will fulfill my mission.
To that end do I take your measure. And eventually I will eliminate you. Your hopes and dreams are inconsequential.
But enough talk. It is not your assertions that I wish to know, but your strength.
Falsely accused of regicide, you fled for the snow-swept fields of Coerthas.
Had you and the Scions met your demise that day in the sultanate, Lahabrea might have been spared his.
But not only did you stubbornly live; you hurled yourself into the thick of the Dragonsong War.
Swept along by the tide of events, you pursued and slew those who sought to stop the unending conflict. Just as you were bid.
...Or was it a thirst for vengeance that drove you?
Impossible.
I trust you are beginning to limber up. Do keep up the fine form.
Around heroes, people are wont to flock. People who harbor all manner of motives, each baser than the last.
Come, let the curtains rise on the grand melee.
Damn it all.
Hells take you...
No more than they deserve. In the end, their hand of friendship was tainted with personal desire.
You know what comes next: you put an end to the Dragonsong War.
There is no saving your comrade this time. All you can do is cut off the serpent's head.
And as simple as that, a thousand-year war is brought to its conclusion.
But every end marks a new beginning. And for heroes such as you, there is only ever conflict.
How are you enjoying the walk down memory lane? I daresay there will have been a few individuals for whom you harbor deep feelings. Whose passing caused you keenest grief.That is what our people are to us. An irreplaceable existence that can ill be lost. I must─I will save them. For they are my... My...
...Hmph! I think not, hero. Not yet. You must content yourself with the company of monsters a while longer.
...Never mind. We are not here to talk. Let us return to the task at hand.
Emperor Solus had kindled an insatiable flame. Garlemald was its name, and it raged across the land, consuming all in its path.
Following the trail of ash, you set forth for Ala Mhigo and Doma, into a storm of blood.
Again you fought, and again you grew stronger. So strong that we could no longer control you.
Yours is an unnatural, beastly strength. And we shall lay it bare.
In order to gain a foothold in the liberation effort, you journeyed to Far Eastern plains.
There you encountered the land's greatest warriors, and sought to win them over to your cause.
The sun cannot be extinguished...
Bugger bugger bugger!
The strong are drawn to the strong. Thus did you gather new allies to your banner.
Yet where ardent souls gather, so too do fires burn. In this way did you consign those around you to the flames.
Burn them all, hero. Reduce them to nothingness, like the ephemeral morning dew they are.
Forgive me...
I cannot fail... Not again.
You did not hesitate...or perhaps could not? No matter. Let us turn our attention to the finale.
Here we shall have a test between fellow beasts. It is only fitting, would you not agree?
When I fought you in this flesh, 'twas I who triumphed. Will you turn the tables this time?
Is that all?
Hm, my creation appears to have lost its form... It is no easy thing to see through the eyes of a beast such as him.
In any event, there is only so much to be learned by taking your measure this way. Let us try something different.
Come. We continue this within.
An impressive show of strength.
But surely no more than a foretaste of that which Emet-Selch's conqueror is capable.
Such might requires a fairer measure. To compare like with like. Yes...
I shall just have to test you myself.
Come on, Forename! Show me what you can do!
I may not be the real Ardbert, but you'd do well not to underestimate me.
All that made him the warrior he was─every battle waged, every blow swung─is part of my very being.
Good, good... I sense your murderous intent.
Aye, you'd kill me given the chance. Mayhap you think to recover this body?
If so, prove that it's no use to me! Prove that I can't best you with it!
Come! Come at me with everything you've got!
<pant> I see... You're a different beast from when you faced my creations...
Very well, I will transcend my very limits. And we'll see what you're truly capable of!
Yaaarrrgh!
Earth writhe and rage!
Hold nothing back! For neither will I!
<pant> <pant> I have my answer...
You have grown stronger since last we fought.
The result of your trials in the First, no doubt.
Have you finished?
My apologies. I freed myself as soon as I awoke, but rather too late, I see.
Now, Elidibus, if you have ceased trading blows, I would trade words with you.
I have a theory, you see─one concerning that which you seek to accomplish.
It stems from who─or rather what─you truly are: a primal.
The ancients created Zodiark to deliver the star from destruction.
If the magick that brought Him forth is the precursor of what we know as summoning, then Zodiark would have been instilled with a presiding desire...
I found it among the records at Anyder. And it came as no surprise. Were I faced with the world's destruction, I too would wish for the same...
Salvation.
I know that you sacrificed yourself to become Zodiark's heart.
How you came to be separated from Him is less clear...
But if you are a fragment of His being, it stands to reason a desire for the world's salvation would drive you.
And thus did you seek to inspire the masses to rise up as Warriors of Light, going so far as to use Ardbert as a symbol of hope.
Correct on all counts. Such is my nature, and such are my methods.
I have aided heroes. I have made them. I have even become them.
This served not only to strengthen me, but also to facilitate the work of my brothers, such as Emet-Selch, with his penchant for nation building.
Then you will be all too familiar with the fickleness of mankind.
We change. We forget. And what little we do remember becomes twisted and fragmented over time. For which reason, you deem us unfit to carry on your legacy.
But are you yourself free of these foibles? As the last witness of the Final Days, do you remember everything that was lost? Or even the things you cared about?
Get to the point.
A primal is shaped by the hope that fuels it. Even should this hope be something as simple as the world's salvation, it is the collective desire of innumerable disparate souls crying out for deliverance.
Having drawn your strength from such a cacophony of voices, can you truly be sure you still speak with your own?
Your question is irrelevant.
No matter how much I should change, no matter how much I should forget, I shall ever remember my duty.
At times I stand with my brethren. At times I stand against them. All that I might steer mankind and the very star upon their true course.
For Elidibus is my name. And my mission. Guiding my every deed.
But enough talk. You have shown me sufficient proof of your might.
As I am now, I would struggle to defeat you. Yet I have still to play all of my cards.
If I could offer you some semblance of sport, your lessers would pose no threat to me. Would you not agree, Warrior of Darkness?
It has been an eventful morning─if indeed it is morning. I've no idea how long I was unconscious.
Regardless, I am gratified to see that my efforts at Anyder have borne fruit. We have confirmed the nature of our foe and his plot.
Now then, what news from the surface?
I see. Then let us make for Eulmore at once. We have much to share with our comrades, Elidibus's parting threat not least of all.
Ah, but forgive me. It would seem my belongings did not accompany me here. I will need to retrieve them from Anyder.
With luck, the aetherial stream you traversed still lingers. I won't be long.
With luck, the aetherial stream you traversed still lingers. I won't be long.
...day forth...bring honor to the seat of...
...day forth...bring honor to the seat of...
...day forth...bring honor to the seat of...
...day forth...bring honor to the seat of...
...day forth...bring honor to the seat of...
