I don't see any eggs... Is this the right place?
I don't see any eggs... Is this the right place?
That was amazing! The rabbits were so adorable!
And that crown of peach blossoms is so pretty! I wonder if they give them out with the eggs... Let's go find out!
And that crown of peach blossoms is so pretty! I wonder if they give them out with the eggs... Let's go find out!
I heard the Hatching-tide festivities would be held here this year, but I've seen nothing out of the ordinary...
I heard the Hatching-tide festivities would be held here this year, but I've seen nothing out of the ordinary...
Oh my stars! What manner of─
Oh... You're promoting Hatching-tide? Yes, yes...I knew that, of course.
Splendid trick that was, truly. I never knew goobbues to be adept at anything besides eating, but you've expanded my horizons. Mayhap I'll partake in the festivities this year after all...
Splendid trick that was, truly. I never knew goobbues to be adept at anything besides eating, but you've expanded my horizons. Mayhap I'll partake in the festivities this year after all...
This just might work...
Groooaaah...
Groooaaah...
Good work, Forename. Same goes for you, Peatie! I could hardly pass around the eggs fast enough!
Graaarrr!
And it looks like Peatie's managed to conquer her fears. Let's hope these ovations are enough to conquer the seneschal's.
There's not a single egg left. Good work spreadin' the word, Forename.
Grrr!
Although I've been but a bystander in affairs so far, what I've seen has been truly inspiring. Peatie is possessed not only of a kind heart, but the soul of an entertainer as well!
I would have her be the main attraction of our stage in Ul'dah! On behalf of the Little Ladies' Day Planning Committee, I invite you to our city as honored guests!
Well, I'm not one to decline such an eager invitation. Consider it accepted.
But first, I'd best tell Miss Aliapoh that she'll be needin' more eggs. Go on to Ul'dah─we'll find our own way there before long.
Wonderful! Then I shall depart at once and make the stage ready for your arrival.
Ahem. You've helped tremendously already, but there's no denying that Peatie has taken a shine to you. Might you watch over her in Ul'dah for a while─just until she becomes accustomed to the crowds?
Every stage is different, so it might take a while until Peatie finds her footin'. But her desire to see people smile can't be doubted. She'll shine brighter than all the jewels in any merchant's coffers.
Grrr! Hrrr!
Grrr! Hrrr!
Our lovely Peatie is heading straight from her debut to the grand stage. I must leave at once to cheer her on!
As expected, Lady Aliapoh's dream is coming to fruition. Give the warmest of regards to the royal seneschal for me!
Ah, you are arrived! You'll be glad to know that I've managed to win over the planning committee with my story of Peatie's show. Ul'dah's gates will be cast wide for her arrival!
If she is amenable to the idea, I would have her be the star attraction on this year's stage.
But the first order of the day is to spread the word! If we tell the citizens what we saw in Bentbranch Meadows, it is my hope that they will welcome Peatie with open arms.
And if her show is a success, then we will have managed a celebration which spans from Gridania to Ul'dah, painting smiles upon the faces of all the realm's little ladies and egg fanatics alike!
I shall stay here and drum up what interest that I can. Forename, pray head to the Steps of Thal and do the same. Meet me at the stage afterwards and together we can shower Peatie with applause.
Aldemund and Peatie will wait outside the city gates until the appointed time. Until then, it's up to us to spread the word and muster the largest crowd we can.
