Will you remain silent for fear of the mad king's vengeance? Of his eyes and ears in the shadows and his knives in the dark? You who call this “living” dishonor our nation─it is but a slow death!
Liberty or death. Liberty or death! If this be your creed, then raise up your hands! Raise up your voices! Together we will tear Theodoric from the throne! Together we will reclaim our freedom!
Sent you home to mend, did they?
Aye, sir. Garleans got the better of us. The...the chirurgeons say I'm healing well, so it won't be long now.
Liberty or death, is it? Tell me, soldier: what do you think those words mean?
We...we must needs be willing to die for liberty?
Spoken like a true patriot. But liberty should not be the end in of itself.
Liberty is the chance to build something better. A stronger, more prosperous home for our people. It's not quick or easy work, and it is never truly finished─but if you neglect it, then sooner or later, you look up to find you've traded one tyrant for another.
Well, sir, I...I've never asked for much. Never wanted to live like a king─just wish it were a little bit easier is all. For me and everyone else. And I'm...I'm willing to die for that, if that's what it takes!
Dying is easy, soldier. Living is harder.
Rest. Mend. Regain your strength. You'll need it in the days to come...and mayhap one day we will need it too.
Conrad chose you as his successor, Lyse, and I will not gainsay his decision.I have but one question to ask.
Liberty or death. Those were Curtis's words, and his creed. Will you swear by your father's creed before your comrades and the gods?
Liberty or death... That's all you can hope for in war. Father understood that...and you want to know if I do too.
I swear to you, here and now:I will fight until the end, be it liberty or be it death.
But the freedom we win must be for every Ala Mhigan─even ones like Fordola, though they may hate us, and the Ananta, though they may fear us.
We'll fight and we'll talk and we'll find a way to make it work for all of us. Compared to all that, retaking our home will seem like the easy part.
Hmm. A good oath. Then there is naught else to say.You are indeed your father's daughter...
Even a blind man could see that Lyse wasn't herself. Not that I don't understand.
To be thrust into a position of authority under such circumstances─to be made responsible for the lives of so many... It isn't easy. And when you see your friend get cut down before your eyes, it only gets harder. I'll wager she thought Alisaie was dead for a moment back there.
'Tis one thing to risk your life for a cause. But to risk that of another is a burden no soldier is ever truly ready to shoulder.
The fear, the guilt─it weighs on her. And that's good. It will make her a better commander.
But first she needs to learn to carry it. To not let it break her. To remember that some causes are worth fighting for.
“Liberty or death.” Her father's words gave me strength once. Mayhap they'll do the same for her now.
Right, then. I think I've said enough. The two of you can head back. I mean to stay a bit longer...
...I understand. He's been away for a long time, and he probably wants to be alone for a while.
Let's head back to Radiata.
Wait... Am I the only one who feels like I'm being watched?
I don't know if it's imperials or bandits, but I know there's more than one of them.
Let's split up. You head northwest, and I'll head northeast. Maybe I'm wrong, but I don't think so...
