Coming right up!
Sorry, we're rushed off our feet this evening, miss. Can I get you anything? Drinks are on the house!
Hm? Oh, that Bragi has a twisted sense of humor...
Gahahaha! To think he'd send you to me at a time like this!
The first real “night” in near a hundred years has folk all riled up and then some!
What's more, there was that eater business at Holminster Switch. They say a Lightwarden was destroyed without a damn trace, and it was the Warrior of Darkness who did the deed!
I really must apologize for Glynard─he's been almost as rowdy as our customers, and that's no small feat.
A lot of our regulars are bounty hunters, you see. They mostly go after eaters, and the rumor of the Warrior's appearance was the spark to their kindling.
You know how the weak eaters are drawn to the strong ones, right?
Aye, they swarm like angry bees around a queen. You need look no further than Holminster for proof of that. But attacks on that scale don't happen every day, praise the blessed shadow.
No, the more common threats are the strays. No one knows why, but every now and again, an eater will leave the pack to prowl alone. Those are the ones you run into on the road if your luck is foul.
They're a danger to everyone, so the Settlement council puts bounties on their heads. And our bar here is a convenient place for hunters to gather and share information.
Seems a few of them were inspired by the Warden-slaying even more than most. These are the types who have their sights set on the absolute worst of the strays─a class of eaters that've been dubbed the “Cardinal Virtues.”
The Virtues showed up out of nowhere about three summers ago, and when historians heard the descriptions given by survivors, well...apparently they share an appearance with the villains who caused the Flood.
And if that doesn't send a chill down your spine, they're also reported to be as tough as Lightwardens─not the kind of prey you can take down single-handed.
Our Virtue-hunters had all but given up, but knowing the Warrior of Darkness is out there has lit a fire in their bellies. Just look at them...
That Hume over there with the oversized sword is Granson. He's in it for revenge. Wants to recruit a comrade-in-arms as tenacious as he is.
The Mystel lad is Lue-Reeq. Don't be fooled by those dewy cheeks─he's as hard a hunter as they come. He just lost a partner, and seems to be on the lookout for a new one...
That's Cerigg. Word is he seeks an expert in magecraft to help fight the Virtue he's after.
Last we have Giott, dwarf and drunkard both. Wanted to join forces with a healer, and only a healer. Something about needing a “mender's wisdom”...?
I've seen my share of competent veterans, and you have that look about you. Maybe you should introduce yourself to one of our hunters. Who knows? Together you might even collect the bounty on a Cardinal Virtue!
Now there's a grand idea. Imagine the prestige my bar would earn if we boasted the patronage of a successful Virtue-hunter!
Welcome back, miss.
I wonder if anyone can sleep with the city in such an uproar, but will you be retiring to your quarters?
Very good. In light─ahem─of the present situation, I have had illumination prepared for all our rooms. No need to rush to the markets for lanterns or candles. Have a pleasant rest, miss.
So it's your lot's turn to be the Warriors of Darkness, is it? It's funny how things work out.
Well, I did warn you. I followed you to Eulmore and then on to Amh Araeng. And I was there when you slew the Lightwarden.
Aye, I know. Just the place.
In case you've forgotten, you're the only one who can see me. If we had one of our little chats in public, people might start thinking you'd lost your wits.
Those white-haired twins who were with you... I remember them from our battle in the Source.
Are they your friends, then? Through thick and thin?
Aye...
Then I suggest you keep them close. It's when you charge ahead trying to save someone else that you end up losing those you love.
Not that you need telling. I'll bet you've lost plenty. But I wonder...what will it cost you this time?
I don't remember when it was that I learned regret wasn't worth the bother.
You get numb to it all over the years. The lost comrades, the broken promises, the abandoned principles─just more nagging burdens to ignore.
