Aye, well, I was never good at indulging foolishness.
Don't...don't tell me you followed my trail?
I'll tell you all about it after we kill this bloody bastard, aye?
Something's wrong! It's shrugging off our attacks!
It's coming for me and Renda! Keep your distance!
Gather round Nyelbert! Lend him your strength!
I owe you one.
Gonna roar again, huh? The hells you will!
Gah... Too late...
Steady, Renda! We'll best this bastard yet!
No one's dying on my watch!
I've got plenty arrows left for you yet!
Well struck! Keep it up!
Focus, everyone!
Renda, Nyelbert! Assist Lamitt, quickly!
Come to me!
Anyone hurt!?
It's summoning all its strength for something big. Finish it!
Everyone, to me! I'll lend you my power!
Together we will avenge my fallen friends!
Victory will be ours!
No more games!
Damn you!
We've almost got him!
Give it your all!
Of all the bloody...
No, not yet...
You fool...
That the best you can...
No... I can't...
Ardbert, I...I don't know what to say...
Thank you, everyone...and I'm sorry for trying to go it alone.
And why, pray tell, did you even try to do something so foolish? If we'd been here from the first it wouldn't have been anything even approaching a challenge.
Back in the day, I was a bounty hunter─I've told you that much. But I haven't told you about my old partners...
Together, we tracked and claimed countless notorious marks throughout Norvrandt. We were the best in the business─everyone knew our names and our reputation. They called us legends...and somewhere along the line, we started to believe it too. And then we set our sights on Balam-Quitz...
I survived, they didn't. I swore vengeance, but had no idea how to go about pursuing it. Then I met you lot, and thought that maybe, with your help, I might just have a fighting chance.
So you see, I never intended to keep it all a secret. It's just...you never asked, and since I'd rather not talk about it...
Easier to live in the moment, you know? The next town, the next job. The weeks flew by, and after a time, I...started having second thoughts.
I'd lost those closest to me before. I didn't want to live through that again.
Are we or are we not comrades? Through thick and thin?
These bonds of fellowship between us must come before all else. Otherwise, they may as well not exist.
You say the thought of losing us pained you? What of our feelings? What of our loss? What if we had not arrived when we did!?
You've saved our lives more times than I can count─how dare you refuse to let us do the same!
...And without those keen ears of yours, I'll never know what bollocks Branden and Nyelbert are whispering about me behind my back! And ignorance is not bliss, let me tell you!
This one's worth a fortune, aye? And fame besides. I'll wager we won't have to pay for our drinks when we get back into town!
Oh gods, not another night to remember...
Don't you worry your pretty head over our fearless leader's questionable constitution! Take pride in the victory, for the smallfolk will sleep easy once they hear of Balam-Quitz's demise...until Ardbert's drunken snoring wakes them from their slumber.
And on that note, I think it time we quit this place! And Renda-Rae─I trust that the next time you decide to hunt deadly game, you'll do us the courtesy of extending us an invitation?
And there I thought I was doing you a favor by keeping you out of my personal affairs...selfish as it was...
Oh, fine! But if you go and die on me, I'll pay a necromancer to raise you from the dead so I can kill you out of spite!
Agreed! Now then─mind cutting off whatever it is you need to take back as proof of the kill? I don't want to lose our reward on a technicality.
Such a fine crystal. Why not hold on to it as a memento of this occasion?
Wake up, damn you! Hello!?
What's wrong with you, huh? That's the second time your so-called “gift” has cost us a chance at slaying Andreia!
You...you know what? I've had enough!
Enough, I say! Yes! I don't need your help! I am perfectly capable of hunting the sin eater on my own!
Upon our return to Gatetown, you will be given your final payment, and we will be free to go our separate ways...
...What is it? Did something happen between you two?
Honestly, I don't know why I ever placed my faith in you. You are...such a disappointment... Hmph!
Consider this the formal dissolution of our partnership. Let none ever again speak the names Reeq and Forename in the same breath─yes, never again. And with that, I bid you good day.
When he was little, Reeq's parents punished him for a time by withholding his allowance. Without money to lavish on his “friends,” he soon found that many were only drawn to him by his wealth. I daresay he feared you would abandon him as they did, and decided to push you away first...
I'm not trying to make excuses for what he said. I only hope you can find it in your heart to forgive him. Take some time to think it over, then come and see me. Oh, and take this for your troubles.
I am sure a talented woman like yourself is needed all over the realm, and so I thank you for sparing a moment to hear me out.
Since you two parted ways, Reeq has come to visit me several times. Though he is blessedly in good health, I worry for his spirits. I think you may have been the only friend he has had for some time...
I considered journeying to the Crystarium myself to look in on him, but I find travel rather difficult these days. If you would go in my stead, it would put my heart at ease...
All I ask is that you go to the Crystarium and see Reeq. I won't ask you to take pity on or forgive him. I only want to make sure that he is well...
All I ask is that you go to the Crystarium and see Reeq. I won't ask you to take pity on or forgive him. I only want to make sure that he is well...
