When we have claimed victory, I claim Hien for the Buduga!
<sigh> Do as you will...
Focus on Magnai─leave Daidukul to me.
You, too, must learn your place.
Let's move this right along!
You have left yourself open, Doman!
Ugh, this bodes ill... Y'shtola─some healing would be welcome!
My fist swells with the passion of the Buduga!Every last drop, I give to you, Hien!
So you still stand. But soon you will kneel.
Ungh... This isn't over, Hien...
Know the folly of opposing the will of Azim!
These axes will not break! You have nowhere to hide!
Very well, then... Y'shtola─to me!
I shall take care of this!
Let us be about it!
Hmph, predictable!
What!?
Every step you will take, every move you will make─the Sun sees all!
Now, fall!
Time to finish this!
Aether! To me!
Have at you!
Ungh... What strength─what grace is this?
Ahhh, never have I felt such bliss in defeat!
'Twas a battle to burn soul and flesh to ash. We Dotharl will lend you our strength as promised. Nhaama's power is yours to wield.
What does the Sun say to that?
Hmph. The Sun is not driven by base motives such as yours. But aye, they have been judged...and found worthy.
It is the way of the Oronir to accord recognition and respect to the strong. You have made sufficient proof of your strength. The Sun shall answer your call.
You have our thanks. We are glad to call you allies.
You. By what are you called?
Y'shtola. Why?
Are you...?
Are you my Nhaama?
I beg your pardon?
In battle, you shone with all the majesty of the full moon's light, your healing touch the embodiment of the Dusk Mother's love.
Long had I wondered if my Nhaama might not be a woman of the Steppe. Beholding you, I am all but certain!
Now, look into my eyes. Could it be...? Could you be...?
I am...not interested, little sun. Try again when you have become a man.
Little...?
Little sun! Little sun!
Does it pain you, little sun? Crave you salve to soothe the ache? Fire to sear the wound in your heart?
We have wasted enough time here. Cirina waits for word of our success.
...You had not only to contend with Sadu, but Magnai too!? Such a fierce battle that must have been. Yet here you stand, triumphant. Having passed such a test, they could not well deny you their allegiance.
The Mol will make no such demands. Weak though we are, we will gladly stand with you. The Steppe is our home, and we will defend it with all our being.
You have my heartfelt thanks! Of all the tribes of the Steppe, there is none I would rather have at my side!
Gods willing, many more will rally to our cause. I shall send you word when we have answers from all the tribes.
I cannot thank you enough, Cirina. None of this would have been possible without you.
We have the requisite consent. 'Tis time to put Nhaama's power to use.
If the aether flows as planned, all that remains is to have the Ironworks' engineers do their work at the ruins. Come, let us return to the House of the Crooked Coin.
I shall begin at once. You may wish to step back.
Did it work?
It did. Aether may flow freely to the Burn once more.
I do not pretend to understand what you did, Y'shtola, but you did it! Thanks to you─and Forename, of course─we have taken a momentous step towards securing our defenses.
Now, as much as I believe a rest is in order, we should probably make haste back to the enclave.
Agreed. The others may already have returned from their missions, and I would know how things stand.
As would I. Without further ado, then.
Lord Hien is expecting you. May I show you in?
Judging by your triumphant expressions, I take it all went well on the Azim Steppe.
Indeed. We have secured a suitable source of energy for the barrier.
Good. Tataru and I have commissioned Garlond Ironworks to ensure that the field generators function as they should. A team of engineers stand ready to set out for the Burn at a moment's notice. You need only say the word.
I thank you for engaging their services on our behalf. The minutiae of the arrangement, you may leave to me.
Which just leaves the small matter of our alliance. So, Yugiri and Hakuro...how fared you with our neighbors?
My lord. All of the factions we approached are in agreement that the Empire poses a threat, and many responded positively to talk of an alliance.
From Hingashi and Sui-no-Sato, however, we received outright rejections. The former will not break its treaty with the Empire and the latter will not involve itself in conflict.
Just as we expected, then. Well, there is naught to be done about it. We must focus on the rest. To each of the nations that were amenable to an alliance, I will personally send a missive.
And once I have attended to that, I believe we will have done everything we can to fortify Doma's defenses─for the time being at least. All of which means I may leave for the meeting in Ala Mhigo with a lighter heart. Yugiri, Hakuro─if you would be so kind as to hold the fort in my absence.
My friends, we could not have achieved so much in so little time without your help. For that, I give you my heartfelt thanks. Till the meeting, then.
I took the liberty of asking Thancred to attend as well. He should have arrived in the Ala Mhigan Quarter by now.
Then let us not keep him waiting. Shall we?
Y'shtola has told me all. And I duly told Urianger and Krile.
Krile, in particular, was concerned about Alphinaud, but I assured her that everything that can be done is being done. She agreed to continue with her own tasks for the time being on the condition that I contact her the moment there is any development.
So, that leaves four of us to attend the council. Arenvald is here to assist with security, incidentally, though the poor lad seems altogether too distracted for the task. Another one missing Alphinaud, I expect.
Ah, but it's almost time. As soon as you are ready, present yourself to the guardsman at the palace entrance. I shan't be far behind.
Ah, the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, welcome to Ala Mhigo! The Alliance leaders have already arrived. May I show you to the meeting chamber?
Mistress Lyse. Commander Aldynn. It gives me great pleasure to formally welcome the city-state of Ala Mhigo to the Eorzean Alliance.
The pleasure is ours, Your Grace. I know I speak for all Ala Mhigans when I say that we are glad of this chance to stand with our comrades of the Alliance.
And we for our part are glad indeed to be able to welcome friends both old and new...
Lord Hien of Doma, at your service. Pray accept my heartfelt thanks for your generous invitation.
Nay, 'tis we who must thank you for journeying so far. And 'twould be remiss of me not to acknowledge the part the Scions of the Seventh Dawn have played in bringing all of us together.
In times of great unrest, you and yours have been our constant companions, without whom we would not be here.
With apologies to Lord Hien and Mistress Alisaie, it occurs to me that we have not gathered in this way since that fateful day in Ul'dah.
The day I lost my arm and my freedom... As I lay in my cell, never did I dream that I would one day be given the chance to represent my homeland at this council.
I would not even be alive had you not plucked me from the jaws of death─you, Yugiri, and Alphinaud. Would that the lad could be with us...
I too owe my presence here to Alphinaud. In so many ways... Until such time as he returns, I mean to carry on his good work as best I can.
Come, friends─let us leave the past in the past, and turn our eyes to the future. My lord Hien, pray tell us how things stand in the East.
Having heard the rumors of dissent in Garlemald, I dared to dream of a peaceable solution...
Hm. The Empire will not so easily change its ways.
If the Garleans have a mind to take back Doma and Ala Mhigo, we'll be hard-pressed to stop them. Even with the might of six nations.
But while we lack the strength to fight the tide, a course may yet present itself if we read the winds aright.
The winds suggest but one course to me─one which leads from the sea unto the river and thence to the source of all our woes.
The Ascians.
Indeed. All here have felt their blighted touch. It was the Bringers of Chaos who nurtured the archbishop's tyrannical ambitions...
They who bestowed upon him the secrets of summoning, as they have so many others, before and since. And while they remain, we shall know no peace.
Our objective is clear. The question is how to achieve it. That our enemy parades about in Zenos's skin poses problems in itself, but ere we get to them, how are we to infiltrate the Empire and get close enough to strike?
While I see the wisdom in targeting the Ascians, an assassination attempt on Garlean soil would do little to aid our cause...even were it to succeed. It's time we used our enemy's preferred tactic: subterfuge.
You have an idea?
Speak your mind, Master Thancred. None here know the enemy better than the Scions, and you mayhap best of all.
Whatever it is you propose, we will give it fair hearing. On that you have my word.
Very well, Admiral. My proposal is thus.
We dispatch the shinobi to imperial territory. There, they sow the rumor that the crown prince perished in the battle for Ala Mhigo, and that the man parading around is in fact a corpse inhabited by a servant of darkness.
Well...it does have the ring of truth about it. And were the Garleans to learn that their future ruler is a puppet, the Empire would be shaken to the core.
But─at the risk of sounding stupid─would they actually believe such an unlikely story? I didn't.
Ordinarily not. But prior to his miraculous recovery, rumors of Zenos's death had already begun to circulate around the Empire.
Ultimately, however, what the masses believe is not our chief concern. Our true objective is to create an opening for rival factions within Garlemald to exploit.
Just as a war of succession erupted in the wake of Emperor Solus's death!
A war which raged until but recently, plunging the imperial house into disarray as nephew and uncle grappled for the throne.
It is no coincidence that one of Varis's first acts as Emperor was to name Zenos heir apparent─family feuds being so tiresome when armies are involved. Not all welcomed his choice of successor, however.
There is no shortage of individuals who aspire to the throne─who would jump at any chance to seize power. The news that Zenos is not only dead, but a puppet to diabolical forces, would be too enticing to ignore.
The Empire would not be quick to recover from a second war of succession.
I am no stranger to infiltrating imperial territory. With a team of operatives gathered from among the Alliance's finest, the plan should have a reasonable chance of success.
Doma already has shinobi in place throughout the provinces. We stand ready to act, and act we must. What say you all?
I am for Master Thancred's proposal. We shine a light upon the Ascian and test the Empire's unity.
'Twas his plot that scuttled Doma's negotiations, was it not? Why then, if we can eliminate him, there may yet be a chance for peace.
Let us wage this war of subterfuge, that we may one day lay down our arms. Gods know, we never will while the Ascians remain.
That way...sorrow...
History...must be changed...
Ahead looms a Calamity.
Ahead looms Light, expunging all form and life.
Twin dooms only you can forestall. Only you.
What's the matter!?
There's...there's a voice...
Spies in our midst!?
Nay. I sense no such presence.
Let expanse contract, eon become instant...
Is it over?
Master Thancred!
Twelve forfend...
Bear him to a private chamber. Have every healer make ready.
Swiftly!
