Meriel? Aye, she's here─left the city for good, she says. Barely leaves her house, though. Hm? It's the one closest to the market entrance.
You are Meriel, the sultana's former lady-in-waiting?
I know no one of that name! Pray excuse me...
General Aldynn!?
We will have the truth from you, girl...
Mayhap 'twould be better coming from me.
Lolorito... You'd best talk fast.
As you know, Teledji Adeledji's Carteneau Reclamation Bill was no more than a facade─a means to get his grubby little hands on that Allagan monstrosity, Omega.
When he learned of Nanamo's intention to abdicate, however, he was forced to amend his plans. Suddenly, assassination seemed the most promising way to further his ambitions.
I am told Teledji had discovered a maid in whose veins ran the blood of House Thorne─a new, more pliable puppet to sit the throne. 'Twould have caused an uproar, of course, but few could have contested her claim.
'Twas plain that Teledji's wild machinations had outgrown our ability to control them. So I decided to usurp his scheme, and left the fool to seal his own demise.
And what of Nanamo?
Oh, I have no desire to harm Her Grace─'twould profit me little to destabilize our government. Thus did I employ young Meriel here to administer a potent sleeping potion in place of a poison.
You should know, General, that your dear friend Ilberd was fully aware of my plan.
I had him lie about the assassination as a means to prime your rage against Teledji. We weren't entirely sure how you would react, but things went rather better than expected.
You conniving little worm... You had your claws in the Crystal Braves before their first recruit had sworn to serve!
But of course. When a new game begins, 'tis only prudent to have a piece on the board. Ilberd was mine.
Truth be told, a significant proportion of the Braves' initial endowment was also mine. With such large sums moving about, 'twas a rather trifling matter to disguise my own contribution.
Ah, Ilberd... I secured his services with a promise to support his cause once my authority had been solidified. I swear, the man thinks of naught but prising Ala Mhigo from the grasp of the Empire.
Unlike you, General, the poor fellow seems quite unable to forsake the land of his forefathers. Mayhap that's why he called you a traitor to your people and a disgrace to your homeland...amongst other things. What was it he always compared you to? Oh, yes! “An overgrown lapdog, begging for scraps at the sultana's table!” Oh, how we laughed...
Alas, Ilberd's entertaining little outbursts eventually gave way to wearisome tirades, and the zealous brute became rather unruly. I had no wish to see you executed, you understand, but he would not take no for an answer. Rest assured, his employment with me has long since ended.
...Which brings us neatly to the present. What say you, General? Both you and the sultana are alive; we have one corpse and one fugitive; and preparations have been made to restore your good name. Shall we cry quits and start again with a blank ledger? Hm?
The hells we will! Do you honestly expect me to forgive and forget? After all you've done!? You're guilty of high treason!
Stay your blade, Master Aldynn! You yourself are not innocent! Or have you forgotten your own crime in executing Teledji Adeledji without trial!?
Though you acted out of loyalty to the sultana, such deeds are in violation of both the word and spirit of the law!
...If you would, Lord Lolorito?
This potion will wake the sultana from her slumber. Consider it a gesture of conciliation.
You will find Her Grace resting comfortably within her private chambers. Should you doubt my word, I shall willingly accompany you to the palace as your hostage.
I like not your motives, Lolorito...but you saved the sultana's life, and for that you have my gratitude.
Raubahn Aldynn, you are hereby reinstated as general of the Immortal Flames! The citizens of Ul'dah shall once more be united under Nanamo Ul Namo, and together we shall usher in a new age of prosperity!
By the Twelve... I feared Lord Lolorito's arrival would herald another bloodbath. Little did I suspect that he of all people would gift us the means to rouse the sultana.
Shall we also make our way to Ul'dah? I should imagine Bartholomew has been instructed to admit us.
Flame General Raubahn mentioned you might be coming. Please, this way if you will.
Ugh...
I was having the longest dream...
'Tis time to wake up, Your Grace. Another day begins in Thanalan, and the sun blazes bright upon the sands.
Her Grace is awoken. The palace physician assures me she is none the worse for her slumber.
I believe Her Grace will soon resume her plans to place the government of Ul'dah into the hands of its citizens.
Whatever path she chooses to take, I shall walk it with her. And we shall tread slowly, lest the nation be unsettled in our wake.
Her Grace's compassion is a shining beacon to us all...but what our city truly thrives upon is competition.
'Tis in the struggle against our rivals that opportunities are seized and fortunes made. And with the Empire on the offensive once more, now would hardly seem the time to turn our system of government upon its head.
Are you privy to new intelligence, my lord?
I would hardly call it new. Remind me: what was the name of that enormous imperial warship which met its end in Mor Dhona? Wait, I have it! The Agrius. Yes, well, 'twould appear that the Garleans have been hard at work on another such vessel.
How close are they to completing this ship!? Is it operational!?
Its maiden flight was a success, I hear. I should imagine Emperor Varis is eager to see how it performs in battle.
My lords and ladies, I move that it is time to repair the damage caused by Teledji Adeledji, and prepare our great nation to repel the Empire once more.
'Tis well that the sultana has awoken. The Syndicate yet needs to put its house in order, but 'twould seem the worst of the confusion has passed.
Ul'dah has taken control of its future...and I must do the same.
I have decided to disband the Crystal Braves.
Among the recruits, there were those who supported our order's goals and convictions with all sincerity. 'Tis my hope that these loyal men and women will choose to remain our allies in the battles to come.
As for those who sided with the traitor, Ilberd, they shall be hunted down and held to account for their crimes. It is my earnest hope that they will surrender themselves peaceably when the time comes...though I think it unlikely.
Ah, my all-conquering Crystal Braves... The model army meant to pave the way for a single, unified Grand Company of Eorzea. That so high an ideal should be brought so low...
I need not tell you how deeply the betrayal stung me. Yet I see now that it was mine own naivety and pride which allowed the Braves to fall prey to corruption.
As ever, it is to your own shining example that I turn for inspiration. Like you, I mean to stand firm in the face of hardship, and give mine all for the cause.
Let us resume the search for our missing comrades, that we might come together to shine the light of dawn across the realm once more.
The role of Crystal Brave commander suited me ill, and I shall play it no longer. Henceforth, I shall be no more or less than Alphinaud, proud member of the Scions.
I blush to speak thus of mine inner turmoil...
But the fact remains: there is no woman alive in whom I would rather confide. Were it not for your shining example, I might never have emerged from beneath the pall of my despair.
Hm, still no word from Master Garlond. I hope this manacutter of theirs is nearing completion...
I am assured that Her Grace will make a full recovery.
Aye, and Ul'dah, too, shall flourish once more. General Raubahn and his colleagues have matters well in hand, I believe.
...Lady Yugiri, a question, if I may. I believe your people have been keeping a close watch on the Crystal Braves. Might you know how things stand at the Rising Stones?
Ah, yes, of course. You will be pleased to know that the 3rd Unit Braves abandoned Revenant's Toll when they learned of Captain Ilberd's defeat. The only blue uniforms to be seen there now are those worn by soldiers loyal to you, Master Alphinaud.
...To me? I see. I am grateful to hear that at least some of our members were true to their oaths.
Ere we return to Ishgard, I must go to the Rising Stones and thank these stalwarts for their service. It shall be my final act as Crystal Brave commander.
Will you join me, Forename? You were there at the company's inception─'tis only fitting that you be present at its end.And...I would appreciate the support.
C-Commander!? You're alive!
An' Forename, too! I knew ye'd scrape through!
My splendid Crystal Braves. I have wronged you. All of you. My promises of glory and salvation have brought you naught but blood and betrayal...
Bah, ye'll not hear us complainin'. 'Twas a sight messier than expected, aye, but we was still fightin' for the freedom of all─just like we swore. Ain't that right, mates?
Aye!
You humble me. I am truly blessed to have such steadfast comrades. It is with the most profound regret, then, that I must─
That's enough o' that, Commander! We know what ye've a mind to say, an' we ain't havin' none of it.
We've talked it over, see, an' we're all agreed: ye can take our uniforms, an' strip us of our ranks─but we won't be no less of a company.
But the Crystal Braves─
The Crystal Braves may be finished, but the ideals upon which the company was founded live on. They bind us to each other─and to you.
Commander....Alphinaud. Our minds are made up, so ye may as well get used to it. Let us help the Scions. Let us help you find Minfilia an' the others.
My friends... A-After all that has happened... I know not what to say...
<sniff> Pray excuse me... I had thought my tears spent.
My grandfather used to say that one could measure a man by the constancy of his comrades... Mayhap I am the exception which proves the rule. Nay, do not protest. I know that I am not worthy of their loyalty, Forename...
...But as Thaliak is my witness, I shall do everything in my power to earn it.
I must speak of future plans with the remaining Braves. Any information we uncover on the missing Scions will need to be shared with our allies across the realm─specifically, Urianger in the Waking Sands, and Tataru in Ishgard.
While we are organizing our various channels of communication, I would ask that you call upon Master Garlond at the manufactory. I will join you in Ishgard as soon as I am able.
Forename! How in the seven hells do you do it? I was just about to send for you! We have but this moment completed the manacutter's first successful test flight!
A few minor adjustments and she'll be ready to go. While we see to the finishing touches, you might want to pay a visit to Fortemps Manor─a dragoon by the name of Estinien was looking for you.
You have fulfilled your obligations to the Ul'dahns, then? Mistress Tataru has been keeping me apprised of the situation.
Once I learned that these “manacutters” of Master Garlond's were nearing completion, I saw no reason to tarry in the Mists.
For the present, Nidhogg seems content to remain in the Aery, plotting his revenge.
Might not this be an apt moment to unfold our plans to Ser Aymeric? I think we have kept him in the dark long enough.
Ser Aymeric has been eager to speak with you. Pray proceed.
All stands ready, Lord Commander.
Ah, the moment has come, then?
Pray excuse my lateness. I paid a brief visit to the workshop to inquire about the manacutters. The engineers assure me that they are ready.
The Aery is now but a short flight away. Yet what a long and winding path we took to reach this point.
Were it not for Master Alphinaud's proposal, we never would have attempted to parley with the dragons.
Though our negotiations yielded little, our expedition with Lady Iceheart taught us much.
You took an unimaginable risk... I could scarce believe the tale Estinien told.
Aye, 'tis true that many of our countrymen would sooner die than join hands with the heretics' mistress, but 'twas through that most unlikely of alliances that we came to speak with Hraesvelgr.
A conversation that went rather poorly, as I recall.
In this instance, the journey was more important than the destination. Had we not slain Nidhogg's consort, Tioman, and put the great wyrm on his guard, the Dravanians would have arrived at Ishgard's walls long ago.
Aye, that they would. Full grateful am I for every hour of respite your actions have afforded us. Thanks to you, our defenses are much improved. 'Tis but a pity they won't be enough.
Thus you believe an assault upon the Aery represents the city's best chance of survival. Is that not so, Estinien?
I am under no illusions. Nidhogg's might is legendary. But with his eye in my possession, I can stifle his strength at the source.
Victory will be hard-won, even so, and I shall be glad indeed to have the Warrior of Light at my side.
You shall have my blade as well. There are more of these “manacutters” to be had, yes?
Lord Commander, no!
How can I, a proud knight of Ishgard, stand by and do naught while an outsider risks life and limb for our homeland? I swore an oath to protect this city!
Pray leave the slaying of dragons to dragoons, ser knight. Your duty to command the city's defense is no less vital.
Should we fail, and Nidhogg slip through our grasp, who, then, will hold the walls against him? Will you leave Ishgard in the hands of the Holy See's zealots?
There are others─
Who but you has the authority and the standing to orchestrate a citywide defense? I do not, and neither does the Warrior of Light. That is why it is our place to fight, and yours to remain here, Lord Commander.
What, you too, Master Alphinaud? By the Fury... You have shown some promise, but this adversary is far beyond your skills.
Your candor is appreciated, ser dragoon. I shall remain, then, and cheer you from afar.
Well, my friend, 'twould seem I have discouraged the last of the volunteers, and claimed the task as ours alone. But if any alive can best this wyrm, 'tis surely we two!
I have pricked Master Alphinaud's pride I fear. But had I been less forceful, the boy would have insisted on accompanying us to the Aery.
Do not think me blind to his talent. With a few more campaigns under his belt, I have no doubt that Alphinaud will make a fine field commander.
But one does not practice on an adversary such as Nidhogg. We shall be hard-pressed enough without the added worry of carrying a novice.
We have tarried long enough. Let us call upon Master Garlond and take possession of the manacutters.
Forename, old friend! The 'cutters are ready when you are!
The finer adjustments cost us a few sleepless nights, but we got there in the end!
Which means you can get where you need to go. I tell you, these little beauties'll tear through that wind barrier like a cermet drill through cottage cheese.
And that, my friends, is a Garlond Ironworks guarantee!
You have our thanks. Come, Warrior of Light─the dread wyrm awaits!
