Lue-Reeq? The Mystel lordling? If he ain't sat at his usual table, then I've no idea where else to look.
If he never comes back, good riddance, says I. Still, I'm sure he'll come crawling back here eventually, tail between his legs like the whelp he is.
Kholusia, right? You're Lue-Reeq's partner. I was with Lanbyrd, remember?
Was, I oughta stress, 'cause after we left you we headed straight to Rak'tika. We'd heard a rumor Andreia was there, and Lanbyrd wanted to strike while the iron was hot...
By the time we realized we were overmatched, it was too late. I saw Lanbyrd fall, and when the eater set her sights on the others, I fled.
Call me a coward if you like, but my cowardice saved my life! Wicked white, I still remember looking back as I ran, and seeing Lanbyrd rise to his feet...
I told everyone what had happened, to warn them off the hunt. Some listened, but a few bloody fools took up their weapons and joined the hunt. Glory hungry imbeciles. And not a one of them has returned.
Didn't expect Lue-Reeq to be one of them neither. I remember thinking it odd─especially when I saw him leave for Rak'tika alone. You're meeting him there, I presume? Good luck, friend...but have no doubt that you're going to your doom.
If I were you, I'd leave Lue-Reeq to hunt the Virtue on his own. No shame in recognizing when you've got no chance. Only a fool would fight this fight.
...Forename? Why are you here? Don't tell me you came for me?
It's terrible! It's horrible! Andreia, she's...she's...
Renda-Rae! If aught of you remains, then hearken to my words!
I have come to lay your soul to rest─alone, as you yourself faced Balam-Quitz a century ago on this very ground!
Lanbyrd? Oh gods, no...
Don't tell me─you beheld a vision of my past just now, didn't you?
Aye, I thought as much. Wasn't but a moment ago that I confronted them. Awfully useful, that trick of yours, though I can't understand why you kept using it every time we ran into Andreia...
Huh? So it wasn't something you did deliberately? Good to know...
Anyway, unintentional or not, at least I won't have to convince you of what I saw. She's turned Lanbyrd and those other hunters into sin eaters like herself.
A Hume axeman, a Galdjent swordsman, a dwarven healer, an elven mage. Looked awfully familiar, didn't it?
She's rebuilding her fellowship─she's remaking the Warriors of Light!
But for the life of me, I can't understand why. I mean, I understand why she came here in the first place. She's reliving the hunt for Balam-Quitz.
But Renda-Rae slew the beast by herself! The stories were clear about that!
What? They were there too!? Then the stories were wrong?
Gods strike me down, I've been such a fool! Why did I ever think I could do this alone...
I...I hope you can find it in your heart to forgive me for all the things I said, Forename...
I've regretted my behavior ever since the day we parted ways. It was stupid and nonsensical and utterly pointless.
I'm not sure I could even tell you why I did what I did...
Thank you, my friend. I hope it is all right if I call you that...
You're still upset, as you have every right to be. But I will make it up to you, I will! I don't know how or when, but I will! I swear!
Right, then. Andreia should be around here somewhere. Still on the hunt for Balam-Quitz, I expect...not that she'll ever find it.
No doubt Lanbyrd and the others are with her, too. He and I may have had our differences, but I'd not wish that fate on my worst enemy.
He deserves to be laid to rest. They all do. Renda-Rae most of all. She was...she is my hero, and if I have to kill her to save her soul, then so be it!
But this is too much for even the best hunter to handle alone─and I am far from the best. The only way to see this through is together. You and me, my friend. What say you?
Hah! I ask for a word and you give me a nod. Fair enough. Before we resume the hunt in earnest, though, let us return to Gatetown and let Miss Olvara know all is well. After all, you wouldn't have come unless she sent you...
I owe her so much. Then and now...
Forename, what a pleasure to see you again! And in the company of little Reeq, no less. Am I right in assuming you've patched things up?
I should like to think so, yes...and it is all thanks to you. Had you not implored her to give me another chance, I might well still be sitting alone in the swamps, dwelling on my myriad failings.
And you, my friend─I know not why you sought her out on your own, but I am glad that you did. Miss Olvara is perhaps the only person who truly cares for my well-being, but she has no one to look after her─
Don't be silly, Reeq. I have you, don't I! And before you start blabbering about how you wish you could properly reward Forename─as I can tell you're about to─know that I've prepared a hearty meal just for her!
Oh, that's...very thoughtful of you. Nevertheless, I shall see you both duly compensated once we have claimed the bounty for Andreia.
And claim it we shall, for united, Reeq and Forename are unstoppable...is what I would like to say, but I know my own limitations better than anyone. 'Twould be prudent to make proper preparations at this juncture.
You too should see to it that you are ready for the struggle ahead. It will be a mighty one indeed, but one well worth the effort, my friend!
I do hope you continue to remain good friends from now on...
Forename, my friend, my partner─I trust you are ready?
Good, good. That is very good indeed, for before we depart to face Andreia for what I pray is the final time, I have a confession to make...
I...I may have been somewhat misleading when I intimated the tremendousness of my martial prowess. In truth, it...rather pales in comparison to yours.
...I gather you were not unaware of this. Truly, you are as perceptive as you are mighty.
You must be terribly crestfallen, I am sure. It is my deepest regret that I allowed you to labor under the misapprehension that we were equals for so long.
In my defense, I must say that when I realized what an exceedingly powerful warrior you truly are, I was dumbstruck. I struggled to conceive of how even to broach the subject...
Furthermore, I must admit that great majority─nay, all of our efforts to hone our skills in preparation for the battle to come have been entirely for my benefit, that the disparity between us might not be so readily apparent.
To think that my insecurity drove me to postpone this fateful day for so long...
In my cowardice I allowed Andreia to assemble a party of followers. Where before we might have only to contend with the one foe, we must now confront five. And for all my preparation, I am still no more likely to be an asset to you than a hindrance.
But perhaps that need not be the case. In discussing this grim reality with Miss Olvara while you were away, we hit upon a potential stratagem.
Recall you Renda-Rae's greatest strength and weakness─her preternatural hearing? We can be reasonably certain that Andreia is possessed of it as well.
Therefore, if you were to fashion a device that could produce a loud noise at will, you could use it to secure an advantage in your battle.
What I lack in strength of arms I may make up for with guile. While it will not guarantee us victory, it will surely bring us one step closer...
A thousand pardons, Master Reeq, but I am come to deliver a message from your lord father.
Daddy? What does he want with me now?
It has come to your lord father's attention that you have acquitted yourself rather poorly as a bounty hunter and have brought terrible shame upon your family name. He commands you to cease all such activities at once and return to the city forthwith.
Should you fail to do so, you will be stripped of your citizenship and family name. No further financial assistance will be provided.
Oh...Oh dear...
You may tell my father and my mother the following: that I am Lue-Reeq, proud bounty hunter, slayer of sin eaters. That I have no intention of renouncing this cause, and that they are free to do as they deem fit.
Tell them...that if they have no son, then I have no parents─that I have no family save Miss Olvara, who has shown me more love than they ever have!
Very good, Master Reeq. I shall deliver your reply to them at once.
Right. Now that that's settled, we can get to work crafting that giant noisemaker of ours. Let us consult with the craftsmen of the Crystalline Mean at once.
I daresay you lit a fire in him, Forename. I never thought I'd see the day when he'd muster the courage to say anything like that to his parents...
Thank you for being a friend to Reeq. For the longest time he struggled to find his way, but ever since he met you, he has carried himself with a new sense of purpose. A renewed understanding of who he is and who he wants to be.
For all my time in the Crystarium, I cannot recall ever visiting the Crystalline Mean. Nevertheless, I am sure there is someone here who can assist us.
