There you are. Your friend has just been cleansed.
How do you feel?
Wet, but otherwise no different.
Hahaha, I would've been surprised if you'd said otherwise. Even so, it is customary to cleanse ourselves of Light with water blessed by our priests.
But you have Darkness again, do you not? Why continue the custom?
Why, for the same reason that it was conceived: to pray for the safety of friends and visitors alike. As we pray for yours this morn.
Safe travels, friend, and may blessed shadow keep you.
Right... If that's all, let's return to Runar and see if there's any other customs I must observe.
Come on, Forename.
Though we call it a ritual, it's not exactly unusual or elaborate. I hope your friend's disappointment is not due to her expectations.
How does Zero like our welcoming customs, I wonder.
The memories of those I've met and the bonds we've forged will always be a part of me. She may find these moments strange now, but one day she'll look back on them fondly...
I've undertaken the ritual.
And...while I can't explain it, I feel more confident than I did before. Just a touch...
I'm glad to hear it. With the Warrior of Darkness at your side, I've no doubt that you will save your two worlds.
If we can defeat Zeromus, then aye, the Source would be safe.
But nothing would change for my own world. There would just be one less voidsent to struggle over scraps with the rest.
Is that so? Forgive me, I spoke out of turn...
It's fine. I was under no illusion.
I wish it were different, of course...
Forename, can you hear me? Have you met with the people of Eulmore and Rak'tika?
Excellent. Then we may proceed to the next phase of the plan without worry.
Beq Lugg has informed me that the tower is ready, so make for Nabaath Areng at your leisure.
I've arranged for you to rendezvous with Cassard en route as well.
Not only can he take you to the site of the Flood, but he will also know where best to place the transmitters, given his familiarity with the route between the Crystarium and Amh Araeng.
He will be in Twine on business shortly, so I've asked him to wait for you there.
It's all coming together. To Twine, then!
Zero's pessimism notwithstanding, we will pray for her world. Take care, my friend...and tell Master Matoya that she is ever in our hearts.
Your timing couldn't be better, Forename. I've just finished up my business here.
Lyna has told me all. It would be my pleasure to take you to Nabaath Areng.
...As soon as the other helpers arrive, that is. They're supposed to be along any moment now.
Forename! It really is you!
We understand you are faced with quite a predicament. And when an esteemed customer is in need, the merchants of Mord Souq are eager to provide!
The captain bade us assist you, miss. To ensure that Light is delivered to the Crystarium.
Members of our guard will place transmitters in Lakeland, and the good people of Mord Souq will do likewise in the Hills of Amber. You need but focus on your own task in Nabaath Areng.
Yet more people clamoring to help you. It'd almost be more surprising if they hadn't shown up.
If everyone is ready, then let's get to work!
Wait!
You're heading to Nabaath Areng and didn't think to call on us?
While most of our Talos are still in a sorry state, we've spared no effort in maintaining the trolley.
We've even upgraded it, as a matter of fact! It's faster than ever and can deliver you to Nabaath Areng in no time at all!
After everything you've done for us, we can't just stand idly by. Thancred would never let us hear the end of it.
Thank you. Thank you all so much.
I daresay we have ample help. Come, let's go and acquire our Light.
So this is the Flood of Light...
I don't remember much of the time when Darkness consumed the Thirteenth. Just the cold and the emptiness...
Zero? Are you all right?
...Aye. I'm fine.
You're the one who stopped this?
Oh, no no. That was the first Oracle of Light, Minfilia. She's since left us, but I inherited her power and legacy.
I see...
Let's get started then, shall we?
The other transmitters are set. Whenever you're ready.
Such radiant Light...
It's almost too much for one steeped in Darkness like me...
Whatever may have happened in the past, you're still here, Zero. Alive.
What you couldn't do yesterday, you might still do today.
If this power were mine to wield...
I will not succumb... Not to Darkness...nor to Light!
Zero!
She's...taken Light into herself!
Her body struggles to contain it. She needs help.
Thank goodness... How do you feel?
Better now, I think.
Then you're very, very lucky. Whatever possessed you to do that?
I had to know if I could command the Light. If I could change my fate.
Once, I would never have dared to dream it.
But your friendship and your trust has helped me to see new possibilities. In myself and everything else.
Perhaps that's why, when I beheld this world once damned yet saved, I saw the potential for mine to be saved as well.
To become a world where Light and Darkness are in harmony, and life flourishes. A world where we're not consumed by insatiable hunger, but filled with hope for what we might create together.
If I had the strength, perhaps I could make such a dream reality. Perhaps I could awaken us from this endless nightmare.
That's what possessed me...
If that's your heartfelt desire, then you mustn't be afraid to share it.
There was a time when I lacked the courage. To voice my desires was to burden those I love...or so I convinced myself.
But then I met those who believed in me. They helped me to believe in myself and find the strength to live.
And so long as I'm alive, I know that I'll be fine. No matter how dire things seem. No matter where I am.
To be able to think that brought me peace, and it's a blessing I owe entirely to my friends.
Those who believe in us...
I will remember your words. I know all too well that there's a limit to what we can achieve alone.
As a friend, I'd like to help you fulfill your dream.
If you wish to take in more Light, I can keep the power in check and help your body accept it.
So it would seem.
Ah, yes. You mentioned having to absorb Light. That you still live is proof of her ability.
I certainly hope so.
Right, then. I'm counting on you.
Here I go.
I can feel it. The Light's warmth welling within me.
Then I believe it worked.
With this power, I will return to the void and fight─for the world that once was, and for those I hold dear!
Though I've only known Zero for a short while, I feel as though her struggle is my own. For her sake, and her world's, we must succeed!
We've done our part, and I trust that the others will see the Light to our destination.
It's time we returned to the Source. I shall seek out Beq Lugg and have them return my soul to the spirit vessel.
Well, I suppose this is it. I don't know if you had any other preparations to attend to or people to visit, but I'll go on ahead to the Ocular.
Welcome, my lady. If you wish to go to the Ocular, I should be glad to escort you.
It seems Zero is already back in the vessel. I would have liked to talk to her more, but it'll have to wait till next time. And there will be a next time. I'm sure of it.
Before we said our farewells, Zero thanked me, saying that she learned much during her time in Norvrandt. While I don't believe I'm owed such gratitude, I'm nonetheless glad that she found the experience worthwhile.
The tower stands ready to send Light into the rift, and Zero's soul is secure in her vessel once more.
Our helpers across the realm have also sent word that the transmitters are in place.
Once the others have been set on the moon of Zero's world, we should have the foundation for our aetherial current.
To make matters easier, the transmitters broadcast a powerful signal that can be detected by the tower even across the rift. Upon confirming that the void ones are active, we will send forth the Light!
The rest will be up to you. We'll all be praying for your success.
Now go─make haste back to the Source, and save your worlds!
Worry not, I can manage the tower well enough. Return to the Source, and finish it!
With so many people willing us on, I have faith that we will succeed.
The Exarch's spirit abides in this tower. It will surely deliver the Light where it is needed.
Welcome back, Forename. I presume the preparations in the First are complete? That is well, for time grows short.
Forename, thank heavens you've returned!
The Loporrits report that the brands are on the verge of failing. We have no time to spare.
I shall restore Zero to her body at once.
Ah, that's better.
I was worried that the soul transference process might affect the Light I absorbed, but it feels as potent as before.
The radiance of your soul was impossibly blinding. I don't know how you would have managed without Ryne's help.
While Ryne helped me to contain the Light, it was you─all of you─who gave me the courage to even make the attempt. Your friendship. Your acceptance.
That includes the people of the First. The Night's Blessed, in particular, showed me great kindness. As did Runar─whose only regret seemed to be that you could not join us.
A regret we share. Ours is a reunion long overdue.
If all is in readiness, then I will assume my dragon form and fly to the moon.
In the meantime, pray make your own way to the Drowning Brand. There we shall reconvene before sallying forth once more into the void.
Oh, thank goodness you're back! The seal will break at any moment, Forename! Any moment!
The Darkness groweth stronger with every passing moment. Doubt not but that Zeromus shall soon attain full strength.
Golbez will be ready for our return. We must likewise be ready for him.
'Tis a terrible Darkness indeed that should so test the restraints which once held Zodiark, but with the Light from the First, I am confident we will prevail.
The hour is upon us. If everyone is ready, then so am I.
Time to take the fight to the enemy, is it?
The Darkness has been utterly relentless, gnawing at the seal like I might an iron carrot.
Strike fast and hard, because you won't get another chance.
As a precaution, we've further enhanced the combat supporters. You don't need to worry about us while you're away.
I shall maintain my vigil over the brands. Pray see that thou art ready to depart as soon as Vrtra and the others have assembled.
May the Light shine the way to victory, and deliver you all safely home.
In order to unleash the most concentrated burst of Light possible, we will route the energy to multiple transmitters before directing it to converge at a single point. I will survey the area for suitable locations.
It's too quiet. Surely they know we're here...
This time, Sister... This time, I will save you...
The dark pall over the crater has grown thicker.
And on the other side lies Golbez's domain. He'll have altered the terrain to hinder us.
I don't sense his presence, but I wager he is in the crater...
'Twould be ideal if he were. I shall hurry and place the transmitters.
Once they are activated, our cross-rift aetherial current will be established, and Light will flow freely from the First. In theory, at least.
It will work. It must.
All is in readiness. Without further ado, then... Light from beyond the rift, shine forth and banish the Darkness!
Excellent. The tower is replete with Light from Nabaath Areng.
Commencing transmission!
It works! It works! Light is flowing into the void!
May this Light illuminate your way!
You can do it, Zero. I believe in you.
Look─an opening!
It worked. Let us waste no time and sally forth.
Alas, I fear the breach may be too narrow for you, Vrtra.
For a blessing, I prepared my simulacrum for such an eventuality.
My true form shall stand guard here while we explore the chasm.
'Tis faint, but I sense the presence of a dragon. No doubt my sister's essence trapped within Zeromus.
Not where she was held captive before, but somewhere much deeper.
The descent will not be so easy this time.
The chasm swarms with voidsent.
Summoned by Golbez, perhaps, or born of the residual Darkness.
However they came to be, we shall cut a path through them. Is everyone ready?
Zero...?
That Light should shine in the void once more...
No single one of us could have made it so. Only by joining hands were we able to kindle this Light.
Do you see, Golbez? We needn't damn others to save ourselves.
You knew this once, surely. When you tried to befriend me. When you were one of the precious few left willing to trust in another.
But that man is gone, and in his place a mockery of his beliefs.
It's the same as before... Though we walk different paths, we seek the same destination. And yet...
There is something I must know. A truth that lies waiting in the dark.
This radiance is just the beginning. We must see it cast into the deepest depths of the moon.
She's no longer the cold, distant soul we met in the void. Or perhaps, until now, she just never had a chance to be who she truly is.
Glad though I am that the plan worked, we are in no position to celebrate. The day is not won yet!
My dragon form shall remain here to secure our escape route. The voidsent who dare to approach the gate will reckon with me.
Rest assured I will not let my emotions overwhelm me. When the moment comes, I will call to my sister, and I will wrest her free from Zeromus.
The crater awaits. Woe betide any who bar our path.
“Take heart, and protect them well”... I will live up to my own words. This I swear.
The lingering Light illuminates the way to our foe. It will not escape us.
When we find Golbez, let me speak with him─please. There is something I must know.
We've no time to waste. The voidsent we felled will return ere long.
This place is not at all as I remember it...
He's altered his domain, then?
Golbez's domain, at long last...
I can sense its presence deep within... Zeromus is here.
Let's move on, before they have time to regroup.
A formidable foe...
Even so, it pales before the archfiends.
