In the East, it is said that even a merciful god might be driven to vengeance if thrice blasphemed.
Be grateful you were given a fourth chance to offend. You two, attend to this scum.
No, please! Mercy!
Well, ain't that a sorry sight. Nor an uncommon one, if I'm honest. Don't worry, though─if you work hard, I doubt you'll end up like him.
Just the same, if you ever need a bit of advice about one thing or another, pay me a visit. Just don't go botherin' me every time you stub your bloody toe, all right?
'Course, I do enjoy hearin' a lady muse on the many manhoods of her acquaintance from time to time...
Anyroad, welcome to Ul'dah, Forename!
Take a moment to catch your breath, and I'll teach you a little about our fair city.
Before you go chargin' off to find your fortune, I've a few basic tasks I'd like you to perform so as to help you get to know the place.
First of all, I want you to visit the aetheryte plaza. To get there, head west from here till you reach Emerald Avenue, then look to the north. You should see a giant, floatin' crystal called an aetheryte.
If it weren't for aetherytes, travelin' around Eorzea would be a damn sight more troublesome than it is. 'Course, you still need to attune with 'em before you can use 'em, so be sure to do that with the one in the plaza. You ever attuned with an aetheryte before, Forename? If not, just lay your hand on the thing and you'll see what I mean.
When you've done that, I want you to pay a visit to the Thaumaturges' Guild, over at Arrzaneth Ossuary.
Assumin' that scepter ain't just for show, you might consider trainin' there.
And finally, I want you to visit the Sapphire Avenue Exchange, over on the Steps of Thal.
Goods from all across Eorzea and beyond turn up there every day. You'll have no trouble findin' armor, weapons, or anythin' else a fledglin' adventurer like yourself might need.
You might say that everythin's for sale here in Ul'dah─as long as you've got the gil.
Just make sure as you don't pay more than you ought, Forename.
There's plenty as won't scruple to swindle unsuspectin' foreigners like yourself, 'specially if they think no one's lookin' out for their best interests.
Which is why I'm givin' you this letter. When you visit the exchange, find a gentleman named Seseroga and give it to him. He'll be happy to tell you about the markets once he's read it.
In short, then: visit the aetheryte plaza, the Thaumaturges' Guild, and the Sapphire Avenue Exchange. Simple.
Oh, but before you go, a word of advice: while there're more than a few unsavory characters out there who'll try to take advantage of you, there are also some with honest-to-goodness problems who you should consider offerin' a helpin' hand to.
A lot of folk are lured to this city by the promise of wealth and power. What many of 'em fail to realize is that instead of chasin' after gil the moment they get here, they ought to be makin' friends.
Let it be known that you're willin' to give as much as you get, and opportunities will come your way.
Speakin' of which, you should speak with the Smith over yonder─those lads always have some good advice for up-and-comin' adventurers. Otherwise, that's about it from me. It's past time you got goin'. Oh, and let me know when you've finished, will you? That way, I won't spend my days worryin' that you're down to your smallclothes without a gil to your name.
