<bzzzt> May I...be of assistance?
I-It's still functioning!?
It doesn't seem to be hostile, at least. Perhaps we can ask it some questions.
Can you tell us where we are?
Unable to confirm credentials. <bzzzt> Please present citizen identification.
Unable to confirm credentials. <bzzzt> Confirm. <bzzzt> Confirm. <bzzzt>
Seems it's broken after all...
T-Too strange by half... Let's leave it be and get going.
Are those lightning rods?
Would you accompany me for a moment? There's something I wish to investigate.
Look there. The lightning appears to be drawn to those pole-shaped structures over yonder.
The design suggests they're some manner of lightning rod.
Let's go and take a closer look.
This material appears to be the same as that used in the mechanical soldiers and warships.
On closer inspection, it appears to bear fine etchings... Rather reminiscent of arcane runes, these. I suspect they're not merely decorative.
I would posit it's used to harness lightning as a source of energy. Quite impressive technology.
I'll share this observation with Y'shtola. For a blessing, the dome doesn't appear to interfere with linkpearls.
Thanks for accompanying me. Let's head to the village and find the others.
This is Erenville's village...?
No sign of anyone...
Let's stay vigilant.
Oh, Erenville...
What in the world...?
My home... It's in ruins. But why─what happened here?
And where is everyone?
I had a look in a few of the other houses, but they had clearly been abandoned.
Damn it all! None of this makes sense!
Excuse me... Are you looking for someone?
I apologize for giving you a fright. However, I did have reason to keep to the shadows.
Zoraal Ja has told me a great deal about you.
Zoraal Ja?
Greetings, and welcome to the realm of Alexandria.
I am Sphene, the Queen of Reason.
Queen of Reason?
If you are the Queen of Reason, is there perhaps a...?
Yes─if you mean to ask if there is a King of Resolve. Zoraal Ja holds that title, and together do we reign.
Then you're both behind the attack on Tuliyollal!
And I doubt you're here to offer us a warm reception.
No, you have it all wrong. I am not come to fight.
Zoraal Ja rules alongside me, but that is a matter of expedience. In truth, we are at odds, he and I.
It is at considerable risk to myself and my people that I come before you to beg your aid.
Our aid? I'll admit I cannot imagine King Zoraal Ja is keen to share and share alike, but if what you say is true, you're still the queen.
...Indeed. But I was once the sole ruler of Alexandria.
Until, one day, he appeared, bent on conquest. In my weakness, I feared his power...
So I persuaded him to forego violence and strike a bargain. I would remain queen, and he would receive technology that would empower him to achieve even loftier ambitions─along with the knowledge to use it.
A gamble, to be sure, but if it might spare my people...
If I may─the dome surrounding these lands was erected but recently.
How is it he was able to not only invade, but instate a new system of leadership in a mere matter of days?
I've never heard of your realm. And this place is─or at least, was─Yyasulani.
The house I grew up in is still here.
But three years ago, that tower and these strange contrivances weren't. Nor was our village in ruins.
Where did you come from, and what happened to the people who lived here? You must know!
I realize how confusing this all must be. Truth be told, I don't fully understand it myself.
What I can say is that, one day, people from your Tuliyollal suddenly appeared here in Alexandria. Or perhaps it was we who found ourselves in Tuliyollal...
Until but recently, we were completely unaware of events taking place beyond the barrier surrounding our realm.
Does this not remind you of the Crystal Tower? How after the Eighth Umbral Calamity, we devised a means to transport the spire across time and space from the Source unto the First?
Granted, this is on a much larger scale, if that is indeed what has happened. Not only the people and structures, but also the surrounding environment...
Regardless, the people of Lakeland perceived the arrival of the Crystal Tower much as the queen describes her own experience─sudden and inexplicable.
Well then. You appear to have a better grasp of our circumstances than we do. Indeed, more than I dared hope.
In which case, a closer examination of the effects of this phenomenon may afford us more insights. Allow me to take you to the outskirts.
A number of the Shetona live there as well. Perhaps your acquaintances are among them.
Hold on. If we accept, there's no guarantee we're not walking into a trap.
But if we're to defeat Zoraal Ja, we need to understand how he grew so strong. Besides...
You're right.
Queen Sphene? Before we go, Your Majesty, I have to ask. Did you really have nothing to do with the attack on Tuliyollal?
Noble Wuk Lamat─shall we dispense with the formalities?
I'll not deny the soldiers and airships that attacked your people are products of Alexandria, but it was Zoraal Ja, not we, who fashioned them into weapons of war and laid siege to Tuliyollal.
So he alone is to blame.
...No. I may not have prosecuted this war, but I nevertheless bear responsibility for it.
Perhaps. I know next to nothing about you, let alone what you've been through.
So by all means─show us around. I think we'll learn a lot from meeting your people.
Wonderful! If you would follow me.
Is that concern? Or suspicion?
If things should take a turn for the worse...
Might I call upon your aid?
I jest, of course! But you do strike me as the most capable here.
I think it goes without saying, but we're not going to trust her just like that, right?
Any way you look at it, a mysterious girl who appears out of nowhere, proclaiming herself a queen is suspicious...
Well, having established that we should be wary, we could use more information.
So let's head to this place, the outskirts, and see what we can learn. Perhaps about Sphene, as well.
It's a relief to see the people here are well, at least.
A most unusual farm, but the produce appears normal enough.
Have you ever seen such strange contraptions? I wonder what this one is used for.
The innovations of Alexandria are nothing short of extraordinary.
Those brick buildings... I've seen their like before, though I cannot remember where.
I trust you have similar farming facilities in Tural?
They're completely different from ours. I've got no idea what all those machines do.
We settled on this approach after some trial and error. The Turali have their own methods of farming, which they wanted to continue employing.
But the environment makes it challenging. There's too much rain and not enough light.
Thankfully, the use of electrope has allowed us to fortify the buildings here, as well as provide what nature cannot.
Electro-what...?
Electrope. It's a material we use for myriad devices and applications.
A topic for another time, perhaps. If you would follow me, we're nearly to the outskirts.
I'll admit, I've seen nothing particularly suspicious. Yet.
This is a Tonawawtan village. Or at least, it was. Before the dome and these strange contraptions.
It's a rather lively settlement, isn't it? In defiance of this ceaseless gloom, almost.
It's a relief to see the people here are well. Hopefully the same can be said for everyone in Yyasulani.
It's fascinating how they've combined traditional bricklaying with electrope-based engineering. A curious blending of two cultures.
Here we are! Though you'll doubtless find much of what you see in Alexandria strange, the traditional agriculture practiced in this village, at least, should be familiar.
