Yesss! One of us!
Wahaha! What a fine idea! Why ever didn't I think of that!? You may have the crown...but in exchange, we will have you!
Wake up! Wake up, damn you!
Oh, you're alive! Thank the gods. I don't know where you learned to breathe underwater, but it's lucky you can.
I'm sure you had your reasons, but the first rule of dealing with the Fuath...is do not deal with the Fuath.
It's said that they are born from the souls of the drowned. Were it not for your little trick, you'd have joined them.
Your friends are safely back on dry land, in case you were wondering. They'll be searching for you, I expect.
That's the royal capital of the Kingdom of Voeburt down there. It's seen better days.
They were a stubborn lot, the Voeburtites. Set in their ways. But once you got to know them, you couldn't find a more welcoming people.
It always froze over in winter, being up in the mountains. So we'd pull up our chairs round the fire and trade tales over steaming bowls of lamb stew, while the street lamps burned hot and bright outside...
All dead and buried now. Them and anyone else who might remember.
Everything we did...everything we gave... What was it for?
I wond─ I hope you'll have a better answer than this when all's said and done.
I'm...<huff>...I'm going back in.
Nay, my lady. Exhausted as thou art, thou wouldst only endanger thyself. I prithee, rest a moment.
There was nothing where we looked.
Forename!
Dear gods... Were it not for Soroban's blessing... But I need not labor the point. I am glad to see you safe and well, my friend.
Have you any idea how worried we were!? To wash up on the shore, only to find you weren't with us!?
Oh, but I'm forgetting─here's your crown, Your Majesty! The Fuath kept that part of the bargain, at least!
While there were certain twists and turns, our work here is done, with everyone none the worse for wetness.
Oh! Thank goodness you're still here!
Sul Uin! Is something amiss?
A great big mob of mortals is marching to Il Mheg. Mortals with ugly weapons and uglier faces!
They wouldn't happen to be your friends, would they?
Rather the reverse, I fear. The Eulmoran Army, at a guess.
Meaning...we can play with them?
As much as you like. But just to be sure, I will return with you to confirm their identities. If they are who we suspect, we will require your aid.
If Alphinaud is coming, then Alisaie will be too, yes? Can't have one without the other, you know!
<sigh> All right. Just remember, we're not your playmates this time.
I'm afraid we must leave the rest of the relic hunt in your hands.
Indeed you have! Very well, then. See you afterwards, my friend!
Perhaps. But I would feel better if we were there to assist you.  Back to cheering you on from afar. See you afterwards, my friend.
With our enemies fast approaching, time is of the essence. We must needs accomplish our mission with all possible haste.
Of the two remaining bearers of the relics, the Nu Mou are the nearer. We shall seek them out next.
Among the fae folk, they bear the distinction of having abided in these lands since before the Flood. They are also the friendliest to men, and have served me faithfully whensoever I have called upon them. Indeed, they are the source of much of the knowledge I have acquired in my time here.
The path leadeth past my dwellings. Let us away.
Past yonder cliff lieth Pla Enni, home of the Nu Mou.
The others have gone ahead to scout the way. Come, let us follow.
If the path striketh thee as precipitous, 'tis because it was once a mountain trail.
For where the lake now lieth, there was a valley, in whose midst thrived the city of Voeburt. 'Twas only when the Fuath came, in the wake of the Flood, that the settlement was drowned.
We stand now upon its former outskirts. Grazing lands where shepherds once tended their flocks.
Though one cannot help but feel a pang of loss when faced with such a spectacle, one can scarcely blame the fae folk for so altering the land.
The blame for that lieth rightly with the Light─a force terrible enough to bring an entire civilization to its knees. An entire world. That it should have been allowed to rise up unchecked is the greater regret.
Yet, in spite of all the tragedy which surroundeth me, full glad am I for the chance to be here.
'Twas these hands which brought together the Warriors of Darkness and Minfilia, lest thou forget.
Therefore, even were there no Eighth Umbral Calamity to forestall, it seemeth only right that I strive to deliver the First from its doom.
Only right, I say, though such words ill convey the strength of my resolve.
In truth, I can no more ignore the plight of this world than I can choose to stop breathing. And thus do I labor─for those we have lost. For those we can yet save.
The coming struggle promiseth to test us to our limits, but so long as we stand together, I doubt not but that we shall prevail.
