Stop, stop, stop! Can't you see these are pumpkins!?
And no one with any sense would try eating them raw! You're supposed to cook them first!
Do you not find it an awful bother?
Far from it! Cooking is a joy unto itself.
And what's more, it broadens the range of ingredients that we may safely eat.
But above all else, cooking allows us to draw out the full potential of our produce. Pumpkin stew has been one of my favorite dishes for as long I can remember!
Then perhaps even these hard blocks of plant matter can become as delicious as the orange I sampled...
I wonder, though, if there is anything even more delicious... How about that yellow fruit over yonder?
What a wondrous fragrance! With luck, it'll have a flavor to match.
As I've no idea how these are eaten, I'll just bite into it!
Hnnnggghhh!
My...tongue... Is this...poison!?
A lemon? You mean it's supposed to taste like this!?
How can something so similar to an orange be so revolting?
Ack... It may be some time before my palate recovers from this ordeal. As such, I had best call an end to this round of sampling. Let's say our farewells and return to the others.
Good grief... I fear that lemon has irrevocably ruined my sense of taste...
No room for these either...
Finished, have you? I trust you found something to your liking.
I'm rather enamored with the grapes and oranges. Less so the pumpkin, though I learned the hard way they're not to be eaten raw.
Then there was the lemon. The deceiver. I still feel so violated...
Haha! First time, was it?
I'd hate for you to leave with a bad taste in your mouth─in more ways than one─so I'll give you this lemon muffin I baked. If this doesn't change your opinion, nothing will!
More lemon!? Have I not suffered enough?
Nevertheless, it would be remiss of me to spurn this opportunity to─oof, bit of sick came up there─learn more of your inscrutable ways.
Very well, lemon muffin! Do your worst!
...
This...is...
...DELICIOUS!
Although I still detect a hint of lemon, it complements the sweetness of the dough to create a perfect harmony!
I never would've guessed its vile bitterness could be utilized so elegantly. My good chap, this is simply breathtaking!
See? We rarely use lemon in its natural state, but it has a starring role in all sorts of recipes, and the same is true for many other ingredients.
It comes down to making the most of the resources at our disposal. And sometimes, that can even be the difference between life and death.
I know we won't be able to take every species with us. No doubt the Forum agonized over what was worth preserving...and what will be consigned to history. Hard choices, but make them we must if we're to survive.
Such strength of will... Now I know what Hydaelyn sees in your kind.
Mankind, the Loporrits─we were both born from the accumulated knowledge of the ancients.
They learned all there is to learn about the nature of sentient life and the fates of the stars themselves.
Once a civilization has fulfilled the basic requirements for survival, it will inevitably seek to eliminate all forms of negativity and achieve perfection.
And therein lies its folly...and its downfall.
For perfection is an unattainable ideal. 'Tis the paradox of the immaculate carrot.
Yet civilizations since time immemorial have deemed the pursuit of perfection as “progress.” They pay no heed to the costs incurred in their futile quest, and all too often become the architects of their own demise, their dreams forever unfulfilled.
What, then, is the alternative? The answer lies in knowing that our existence can never be perfect. To be content with what we have and make the most of it.
When life gives you lemons, make lemon muffins!
Err...pardon my Eorzean, but what in the seven hells are you on about? And who are you, anyway?
Cookingway, at your service! I'm here to help prepare for the trip to the moon!
And once you get there, you'll be able to try my carrots. I've been growing all different kinds!
But don't worry, there'll be room for your crops too. We'll work together to preserve as many of Etheirys's species as possible, if you're up to the challenge.
Yes, of course! I look forward to it.
Well, this has all been highly productive. Probably. Let's go and see if Urianger and the others have run out of machinery to inspect, shall we?
So he's one of the Forum's lunar collaborators... Not quite what I was expecting, but he seems a decent sort.
I'm glad he enjoyed the lemon muffin, too. Hopefully the next time he has one, he won't be compelled to wax poetic about the meaning of life and the immaculate carrot again.
By Cookingway's broad grin, I assume your excursion was a roaring success?
Where have you and Cookingway been!? If the two of you were engaged in pursuits of an educational nature, you should've taken me, too! I am the leader, after all.
Oh...there you are. <yawn> Have the others finished talking about rain-making wotsits yet?
Not to rub it in, but we had the most fantastic time while you were away! Urianger was able to obtain all manner of meteorological data for us to pore over. I'll be sure to put my newfound knowledge to good use once we return to the moon.
It's my duty to make your journey as comfortable as possible, though there's no telling how long it will be. A hundred years? A thousand? Hmm... Probably closer to five thousand, give or take.
That was most enlightening, especially the part with the lemon muffin.
Actually, I was wondering, do you know of any other places famed for their cuisine?
Would that I had time to visit... <sigh> The more I learn of Etheirys, the more I wish we could spare it from the Final Days.
Alas, Hydaelyn's orders are to flee, not to resist. If only there was some other way...
Mmm, muffins... I wonder if this is how Puddingway felt the first time Urianger made pudding?
Though I'm not sure that actually was pudding, come to think of it. Something about it seemed a bit...off...
Forename. I trust thy time at Meryall Agronomics did...<cough>...bear fruit?
Our own efforts, too, were rewarded─we now possess an embarrassment of educational riches.
No doubt our guests' relentless pursuit of knowledge could occupy them─and us─for a fortnight. Alas, time is of the essence.
Let us return to Sharlayan Hamlet forthwith. I shall gladly attend to each and every Loporrit there, should further questions within my power to answer arise.
Aw...
The Loporrits want for activities and stimulation, but I struggle to conceive of how to busy them whilst we wait...
That was ever so delightful! And with this much information, I can fine-tune the moon's environs for your people's comfort! It's surprisingly tricky to estimate the appropriate temperature settings for beings so lacking in fur...
Oh, no, there was nowhere in particular I was hoping to go.
I simply wish to see, hear, feel, and think as much as I possibly can while we're here... Hmm? What is that look for? What did I say?
Why did I not ask Jebke how to make carrot muffins!? We could have had baked goods bursting with happiness...
Siiigh...
Yes, Forename, that was indeed me verbalizing a sigh to express my emotional state. Do you want to know why?
Because I saw the reconstructed environmental data for Etheirys at Logistikon Alpha, that's why!
A forest so lovely, and so...so...leafy. Are all of your forests like that?
Gasp! Gasp, I say!
With a star so wonderful, it comes as no surprise that you're reluctant to leave it behind. I was a fool to think otherwise─to assume that the moon was something worth being proud of.
How ridiculous we must seem to you. Trying so hard, yet achieving so little...
Not at all. Thy works are no less worthy for their uniqueness.
I thought I heard tiny voices.
Thancred!
How didst thou fare?
Oh, I was able to glean a fair bit from the researchers while helping to move their cargo.
Preparations have proceeded without interruption here, despite news of the coming end. We have the Forum's leadership to thank for that.
That doesn't mean people aren't worried, though. Quite the opposite.
Knowing disaster could strike at any moment, they hurry to complete their work, equally aware that a single error could be the difference between life and death. And we can hardly tell them there's no cause for concern...
Perhaps not... Though aided by our goodly Growingway, we may yet find other ways to lighten their burden.
M-Me!? Be of use to...to people? I'm honored that you would think me so capable, but I'm not sure that I'm up to the challenge...
Nevertheless, I believe in thee.
If you say so, I... I suppose it can't hurt to try.
I passed someone moping in the western plaza that looked to be in need of a helping paw. Perhaps you might start with him?
'Tis as good a place as any. Come.
You'd best go with them. I don't think Urianger misjudged him, but Growingway does look like he could use some emotional support.
I still have work to complete elsewhere. I trust that I won't return to find any Loporrits in tears...
