Say, Hortefense, isn't that...
H-Hortefense... Wh-Who...th-that w-w-woman...
Gods, she's lost control of her tongue! What should we do?
Hortefense Pastoroit! For what reason do you intimate yourself with this comely young maiden, knowing full well that another has entrusted her future to you?
Well? Have you naught to say for yourself?
Erm, it would seem nerves cause Lisette to fall back into the mannerisms of her noble upbringing...
Oh dear, I'm terribly sorry! This is all a misunderstanding. I came to Hortefense for counsel, as I admire the devoted relationship he has with you. I was hoping he could offer me advice in nurturing a similar bond with the one I adore...
Lisette, my love... My first thought was that you could not bear to wait another moment for our meeting. But now I see you could not bear the thought of me with another...
'Tis as if the very Fury Herself stands before me! A goddess in both spirit and flesh, full of passion and devotion... Oh, what a fortunate man am I!
And I regret that my actions would cause you even a moment of suffering! Please set your heart at ease, my darling! I have eyes for none but you, now and forever. I only chose a private location so this young lady could seek counsel away from eavesdroppers.
Oh. That's...it? Gods, I've made a complete fool of myself. Forgive me, both of you. That a lady of House Valentione should comport herself in such a way...I am completely ashamed.
If I may, my lady, I now understand why you would be upset. And I admire your bravery for confronting us. Would that I had the courage to give voice to my own feelings...
I may no longer be the head emissary of love, but I am as well equipped as ever to speak on matters of the heart.
Love is the fruit born of bravery, my dear. Though it is terrifying to bare your heart to another, it is more terrifying still to live never knowing what might have been. You must confess. I promise you the risk is worth the reward.
I...I suppose I would regret it for the rest of my days if I never found love because I was too afraid to fight for it. You're right, my lady. I will do my best!
Once again, forgive me for─
Hortefense!? What's wrong!?
Ungh... The sight of your angelic pose struck me to my very core... My heart is like to burst from my chest...
I think that means he'll live! Anyway, the two of us will return and apprise Astrid of what happened here. I trust you won't mind if we inform her that you and Hortefense will be partaking in the festivities earlier than scheduled?
Well...'twas our plan from the beginning. And it would do much to smooth over this little...misunderstanding. Please extend my apologies to Astrid for any worry I might have caused.
Let us return to Mih Khetto's Amphitheatre and give Astrid the good news!
Be still, my heart...
Oh for the love of─would you please get up?
I'll let you do the honors. It was your words which brought Lissie back to her senses, after all.
Oh, I'm so relieved! It was all just an unfortunate misunderstanding... I must thank you for being there for my sister, it truly means the world!
You deserve my thanks as well, Emilie!
Don't mention it! I'm happy we were able to help.
Though we've had our ups and downs, I believe we accomplished our goal of showing folk how important it is to express their feelings to those they hold dear. All in all, I'd say this Valentione's Day has been a success!
Which reminds me... Although my explanation of the heart's origins was interspersed with some dramatics, I take it you were able to piece together its meaning.
Yes, indeed. A noblewoman and a proud knight, Countess Arabelle's legacy lives on not only in the tradition of Valentione's Day, but in its symbol─her beloved heart-shaped shield.
In commemoration of her brave pursuit of love in the face of insurmountable odds, the heart came to symbolize her─and eventually, the very concept of love itself, capturing the imaginations of men and women around the world.
Today, while many may recognize the symbol, few know of its history. With Emilie's “love heart,” I believe people will become curious to know the story of our tradition, and for that, I am overjoyed.
Countess Arabelle's tale will undoubtedly give many the courage to pursue love, just as it did your sister!
May we all learn from the countess's example. I pray you and yours have a Valentione's Day overflowing with affection, my friend!
Countess Arabelle was not only a dignified lady, but a noble knight with the resolve and grace to see her passions realized. Tell me, do you know how she developed such fortitude?
Well, I have heard it said that the countess would train at dawn and dusk each day, eschewing the wooden training buckler for her hefty heart-shaped shield─such effort would undoubtedly strengthen both body and mind.
...Pardon me? You believe I shouldn't put stock in such tales? But it sounds perfectly reasonable to me...
Astrid has dedicated herself to making sure Valentione's Day is a smashing success, so it's only right I do the same!
As ever, I'll support her as best I can, and I hope you'll continue to lend us a hand when the need arises!
I am happy to report that Hortefense and I have been having such a splendid time that our little misunderstanding has entirely left our minds.
And, now that I've assuaged any of your lingering concerns, I bid you go enjoy the festivities yourself.
<sigh> ...
Ah, forgive me. I was just reflecting on Lisette's passionate display earlier.
...I fear my heart has yet to recover.
