<gasp> Y-You're the ones who felled Barbariccia!
I-I won't make trouble. I-I'll obey. So please, let me stay!
If you would obey, then tell me all you know of Golbez.
Th-There isn't much I can tell. Only the archfiends are allowed into his domain, wherever it is. None but they know.
I see... No better way to guard oneself than keeping one's location secret.
How does Golbez communicate with his minions afield?
He has these...scepters? Staves? Whatever they are, he uses them to talk to those far away.
Not unlike linkpearls, at least in function...That will be all. My thanks for your cooperation.
My thanks to you as well for affording me the time.
I am satisfied, so let us rejoin the others and head home.
Whenever Barbariccia moved her domain, some would get left behind. No such worries here.
Vrtra has told all. Golbez goes to great lengths indeed to conceal his whereabouts.
While I'm sure Nahbdeen has matters under control, I can't help but worry. Let's not keep them waiting.
I trust you understand that once we leave the Thirteenth, we will not return until we are prepared to resume our search. Knowing this, are you ready to depart?
Back to Troia, then, and thence home...
Ahhh, you're all safe! Thank the Sisters!
A moment while I close the gate.
...There. We may rest easy for now.
Was there any trouble? I expect some voidsent slipped through...
A few did, aye, but we were ready and dealt with them without incident.
That is well. I cannot thank you enough for your vigilance.
Yes, yes, you're grateful. But aren't you forgetting something more important?
You know...the polite-but-warm formalities one delights in hearing when their little brother returns from a long journey.
Indeed, you are right.
Ahem. It is good to be home again, among those whom I love dearly and missed so much.
And we are glad to receive you, Varshahn! Welcome home!
Chambers have been prepared for your use at Meghaduta. Let us take Zero there at once.
Mistress Surname, we have been expecting you. If you would follow me, I will show you to the guest chambers.
Our mission took many an unexpected turn. I am relieved that we have all returned safely.
But before you all enjoy the rest you have earned a dozen times over, I would consult you on one last matter.
Zero.
While she appears none the worse for wear, she remains locked in slumber, and I cannot help but worry.
Is there aught we can do to expedite her recovery? If her aether is exhausted, perhaps I can share some of mine now...
In the wastelands of the Thirteenth, one can only replenish aether by taking it from others, be it by trade or by force.
In contrast, the Source is rich in ambient aether.
Simply being here and drawing breath, Zero will absorb what she needs.
Then we need but wait?
I believe so.
She will awaken in time, and when she does, give her something to eat. Judging by her form, she should also be able to derive nourishment from food.
I know you promised her your aether, but perhaps she might appreciate fine Hannish cuisine more.
Food can certainly be arranged.
She looks like any other person. Unsurprising, perhaps, given that she is only part voidsent.
Zero said before that Zenos had altered her essence.
A change wrought, I suspect, with the power of Darkness. It acted upon the part of her that is voidsent, rendering it dominant. Thus we were able to reverse it with the power of Light.
I labor to believe that Zenos possessed such arcane knowledge. In all likelihood, it came from Fandaniel.
Were Zero wholly voidsent, I doubt the crystal would have had an effect on her.
One might say that Hydaelyn had a hand in your meeting.
'Tis no exaggeration to say that Zero has proven herself invaluable─a boon from Hydaelyn Herself.
Her cooperation may come at a price, but whatever it is, I am willing to pay it. Exhausting though it may be at times.
Her cooperation may come at a price, but whatever it is, I am willing to pay it. Exhausting though it may be at times.
She seems to be faring better here. Praise be to the Sisters...
My chamber is much the same as this one. Too opulent for my taste, but at least it has space to train.
If I may excuse myself, I wish to pay a visit to the High Crucible.
While the scales functioned admirably, it would be prudent to have them inspected for signs of degradation.
By all means. I shall do the same for this vessel.
Then I'll go and meet with the soldiers. Share with them what I learned fighting voidsent in the Thirteenth.
What of you, my friend? Have you any immediate plans?
In that case, might I trouble you with a small task?
I wish to have food ready for Zero when she awakens, you see. Would you be willing to go to Mehryde's Meyhane and ask for suitable refreshments?
Excellent. In the meantime, Nidhana shall watch over Zero. She is already en route.
Let us each then tend to our respective businesses and reconvene anon.
