...
Hmm? Sorry, I was... I'm still finding it hard to come to terms with all that's happened. Now that you're here, though, I'm hoping things might change for the better.
You know, I've worked up quite a sweat from all that running about, so I'll leave space around the fire for the others.
As you can tell, they're in a far worse state than me. We were planning to look for somewhere warmer or with more food, but they're not going anywhere until we nurse them back to health...which I don't know how to do. Is there anything you can do to help them?
Before the civil war, I was a student. The others were officials of some sort, I think... Heh, even after all this time together, we hardly know the first thing about each other.
What I do know is this: we're Garleans. When times are hard, we stick together, no matter what.
I can treat their frostbite and their wounds. But it will take time for the fire to do its work...
Now would be a good occasion to make use of Emmanellain's tinctures─the ones that can warm the body from the inside out. Would you make sure everyone gets one?
If there's something that can be said for Lord Emmanellain, he's not one to leave others at the mercy of the cold. Of course, being a man of Coerthas, I'm sure he is more aware than most of its dangers, but I sense that is not the only reason.
Ever since the warm welcome we received at Camp Dragonhead, the hospitality he and his brothers have afforded us has been nothing short of exemplary. Perhaps they aspire to live up to the example set by Lord Edmont.
The numbness is beginning to subside, though I suspect once the fire dies, it will return with a vengeance.
Warming tincture? I've never heard of such a thing. No harm in trying...
But tell me, have you heard aught of the city? Though calling it that seems absurd after what's happened. It's nothing but ruins now...
The few buildings still standing offer no more than meager protection from wind and snow. Food production, water purification...the magitek that sustained us has come to a grinding halt.
What machina that remains operational cannot be run for lack of ceruleum. Of course, Cerulea Ingens is full of the stuff, for all the good it does us. No one here knows the first thing about extraction or refinement...
Many of our ancestors succumbed to the bitter cold when first they came to these lands. Much as we are now.
But with discipline and order, any obstacle can be overcome. When every man knows his duty and is held to account if he shirks it. Without a hierarchy, this is what we are reduced to.
All is well! Yes, never better!
Oh, what sweet libation is this? Is it...poison, by any chance?
Hahaha! 'Twas a joke, a joke! Hahaha! Ha...ha... Ahh... “If I laugh, 'tis that I may not weep”─so said the poet. And alas, my tears would freeze on my cheek ere they fell.
We are the blessed damned, to bear witness to the fall of the great Empire, while our brethren lie dead...or live on as puppets of flesh.
First came the war,Then came the roar,When morning came,Garlemald was no more!
In a cacophony of gunfire, explosions, and screams was our beloved capital razed to the ground. From the rubble rose the disheveled remnants, their lavish finery caked in ash as they shuffled mindlessly towards the palace...
Each bearing a fragment of stone or metal─an offering perhaps to the architect of our destruction. A hopeful few tried to reason with the deranged, only to be beaten for their kindness...
But I knew better than to plead with the horde. I fled with my health─if not my conscience preserved. Now I wait with my fellow cowards for our final judgment.
If you listen─listen very, very carefully, you can hear it. The sound of my stomach eating itself. Would that it could devour my soul.
What do you want?
Hmm? A tincture? May as well drink it, I suppose.
This? It's a radio. You don't have them where you come from, I take it? We use them to listen to messages sent by others, even over great distances.
There are different types, but this model is by far the most popular. Made with quality components crafted with the finest ore─sourced from Locus Amoenus, it is.
Not all that useful since the capital fell into ruin. The people at the broadcasting station must've either fled or...ended up like all the others, because all we've been hearing is the same music, being played over and over again...
“Home Beyond the Horizon.” An ode to the brave men and women sent to reclaim our ancestral homeland of Locus Amoenus.
We may have founded an empire in these frozen wastes, but we always hoped to take back what was once ours.
'Tis a solemn reminder that though we must suffer great hardship, better days will surely come...
Despite everything, I believe that Emperor Varis yet lives, and that he speaks to us through our radios.
It was a cunning strategy, faking his murder. He must've foreseen this catastrophe and chosen to conceal himself, that he may one day make his triumphant return...
Yes...yes, I'm sure of it. Emperor Varis would not be defeated so easily.
I have faith you will deliver us from this madness, Your Radiance. By your grace shall Garlemald be reborn...
What's that?
So this is what you gave the others? Thank you. I'll save it for later.
Actually, I've a few things to ask you.
Are you part of the group staying in Laterum?
I saw Legatus Vergilia's troops heading towards the Magna Glacies a few days ago. Are they the ones you encountered?
Camp Broken Glass, you call it... And Vergilia and her men are all there now. Hmm...
So how did you reach the Magna Glacies? Did you cross the mountains on foot?
Airships... Then there might be a way to─
