Er, as much as we would all enjoy a treat, perhaps the worms are best saved for...afterwards?
Greetings, Forename. You may not remember me, but I'm one of the carers from the Inn at Journey's Head.
After night returned to Amh Araeng, we noticed a change in our patients. The transformation had halted in every one of them.
I can't express what it did to the mood of the place. We were still celebrating, days later, when who should come along but Alisaie. She said that she sought the aid of those who believed in the Warrior of Darkness.
We all answered her call right there and then. Of course, some few carers had to remain behind, but as many of us came as could be spared.
I too have great respect for the Warrior of Darkness! When we meet, I'll be sure to treat them to a nice, plump worm!
We're ready to do our bit, Forename! We just, er...need tools to do it with.
Pickaxes! Loads of 'em!
Now we may all work to our hearts' content!
While I don't have many talents, I do have a strong back. And what strength I have, I'll gladly use for the sake of peace.
We got the Ladder moving again, didn't we? If we join hands, there's no Talos we can't build!
I still haven't repaid you and Alphinaud for saving me, and I'm not sure I ever could.
But that ain't going to stop me trying! I'm with you to the end!
Come on, you lot! Look lively!
My thanks, Forename. With that, everyone is now equipped to work.
I think I'll go and join the soldiers standing guard over the volunteers. It would be a shame if they fell prey to sin eaters after all the trouble we've gone to.
Right! Let us see that this plan is a resounding success─for the sake of all in Norvrandt!
Well, my friend, it appears we are the only ones left here.
If you've no other pressing tasks, would you care to accompany me to Amity? There, Y'shtola is overseeing those who will imbue the Talos with magicks.
Come, let us join them at once.
Ah, good of you to join us. I'm pleased to say we have gathered ample help for the imbuing.
With Master Chai in the process of finalizing his design, I have taken the liberty of dispatching all hands to their positions.
You hurtle along as though I have my house in order, but quite frankly this is the most disorganized mess of a project I've ever overseen! And I haven't spent nearly as much time as I would like on my calculations!
So thou hast proclaimed loudly and frequently, Master Chai. Yet from my perspective─a layman's though it may be─haste notwithstanding, thou hast gone to great lengths, abiding by proven methodology, to ensure the integrity of thy design.
Aye, well, that's just the bare minimum that's expected of us at the Stoneworks. Though our glory days are behind us, I've not forgotten our time-honored traditions.
Ah, but I should mention that the Exarch delivered the ore I asked for. Earthseed, I believe he called it.
In that quantity, I believe we can fashion a suitable heart for the Talos.
And then everything will be in readiness...or so I would like to say.
Is there a problem?
In a Talos of, well, any reasonable size, a single heart will serve to circulate aether throughout the chassis. But given the unprecedented proportions of that which we seek to build, I doubt that will be the case.
By installing smaller peripheral hearts at intervals, I believe that we can maintain a stable aether flow, thereby solving the problem. However, we don't have enough ore for this purpose.
Naught for it but to procure more, I suppose...
Runar, mayhap now is a good time to bring them out.
A moment, friends. There is something I would show you.
I say, are these not heartstones?
They are. The most prized possession of we of the Night's Blessed. And these belonged to our kindred who have left us.
Immersed in water imbued with fervent prayer, these stones harbor no small amount of magic.
And we may imbue them with yet more prior to their installation on the Talos. What think you?
Being from a different region, these cannot be used for the main heart. The peripheral ones, on the other hand... Aye, I believe they will serve.
Excellent. When Master Matoya spoke to us of the role we are to play, the heartstones immediately came to mind.
Of course, before bringing them with me, I made certain to consult my fellows first. After all, the stones bear the precious lives of those who have gone to the sunless sea.
But we have now beheld the sunless sea with our very own eyes, and by the gentle lights that glimmer on high, we know that there is peace beyond.
Thus are we also at peace. If our heartstones may serve to restore night to all the world, gladly do we give them.
So, Master Chai. If you could instruct us how to distribute the heartstones?
And Forename─for good luck, may I ask that you imbue one as well?
Rest assured it is not difficult. Simply raise your hand and focus as you would when attuning to an aetheryte.
Imbue the jade-colored stone here, if you would be so kind.
Imbue the jade-colored stone here, if you would be so kind.
That will do. Thank you, Forename.
If this heartstone appears familiar, it is because it belonged to Toddia.
It bears the collective hope of the Night's Blessed─the hope that none shall ever again be sacrificed to sin eaters.
Right, I've identified the spots on the Talos where the stones are needed. See that they're amply imbued, then install them as I've indicated on this diagram.
Understood. We will set about the task at once.
When the Talos awakens and the way to Mt. Gulg is secured, we shall sally forth.
It promises to be a trying climb, so take what rest you can in the meantime. We will see you soon.
A moment, Urianger. You said that you would have measures ready in the event that our friend fails to contain the Light. Do you?
Be assured that I do. All which I require lieth in this land.
So do we all hope, my friend. To that end, thou shouldst take such ease as thou mayest, the better to ready thyself for the trials to come.
And I swear to thee that thy trust is not misplaced. As ardently as I pray for the preservation of this world, so too do I pray for thy safety.
So rest easy, my friend, and take such ease as thou mayest, the better to be ready for the trials to come.
To my deepest regret, I cannot reveal the plan to thee. In order for it to succeed, 'tis vital that thou remainest ignorant of its nature until the time is right.
Yet though I may thus keep my counsel, know that I have only thy safety at heart. So rest easy, my friend, and take such ease as thou mayest, the better to be ready for the trials to come.
I'm told the rock for the chassis is more or less ready─all quarried and shaped and laid out. That just leaves the imbuers to do their work.
I'll continue checking my calculations up until the very last moment, but it's only a matter of time now.
We managed to rally nigh everyone in Norvrandt for this endeavor. That's a remarkable feat in itself...but will it be enough?
Gah, there's no point worrying about such things now. I'll get back to my calculations. You, meanwhile, should go and rest as your friends suggested.
My wife and the Exarch should be in the tavern. Why don't you join them?
Oh, and Forename? Ahem...Thank you.
...The Exarch? He went outside a moment ago, my dear. I would've thought you'd have seen him.
He kept me company for a short while, but then he came over rather pale. He's clearly been straining himself, the poor thing.
Anyway, he excused himself, saying that he needed a breath of fresh air. Weak as he looked, I did offer to go with him, but he assured me he would be fine. I do hope he's all right...
The future is where my destiny awaits...
Forgive me, I was...lost in a dream.
I needed some fresh air, and thought to rest for a moment. It would seem I am more fatigued than I realized.
Too much time away from the tower, I fear. It drains me─leaves my body frail and weak.
Though, in truth, it is debatable whether I can still call this my body...
When first I turned my mind towards the salvation of the world, I came to the conclusion that it would take many long years. Many more than remained to me.
And so I made myself one with the Crystal Tower, that I might live indefinitely.
I am but an extension of it now. Hence my weakness the farther I travel, and the longer I am away.
It has been quite a journey.
But thanks to you, the end is in sight. My wish will finally be fulfilled.
How goes the construction effort?
Then this may be the last moment we have to ourselves for a while. Come, sit with me.
Tell me, when all of this is over, what will you do?
Ah, yes. Even should we succeed in forestalling the Eighth Umbral Calamity, the specter of war will remain.
But to declare your intent with such easy resolve... You truly are a heroes' hero, my friend.
In the hundred years they have existed, no one had come close to ridding us of even a single Lightwarden. Yet already you yearn for the next challenge. You truly are a world apart from us all.
That would be well deserved. You might consider roaming Norvrandt not as her savior, but as a simple sightseer. Viewed through such eyes, I am certain she would seem quite different.
Well, you needn't hurry to decide. I was merely curious to know what sort of future lay in store for a hero with her life ahead of her.
But whatever it is you decide to do, I have every confidence that you will do well. For you have the strength to forge your own path.
You will leave countless lives better than you found them, and the souls you touch will never forget your kindness.
Then, in trying times, when you question your worth and your choices, they will raise their voices to remind you of the difference you have made.
And thus will your deeds come to affirm your path. Remember this.
When this is over... Indeed...
Of me? You mean what I intend to do afterwards?
I once told you that there are things we can ill afford to lose.
“Things,” I said, though in truth I spoke of a person. One who is unaware of the full extent of my plans. Though she deserves to know, I have good reason to keep my counsel.
I have come to terms with this in my mind, yet my heart yearns to lay everything bare. For she is my inspiration, and I would give much and more for the chance to speak with her as friends, with no thought of concealment.
Should she indulge me with her tales, I would regale her with my own─about my efforts in Norvrandt, perhaps.
Though...ultimately, that tale is more yours than it is mine.
Then...I would ask her about her next adventure. And if she should wish me to be a part of it, oh...how happy it would make me.
Together, we would travel the lands and cross the seas and take to the skies upon the eternal wind... My heart swells simply to imagine it.
But all of this is contingent upon our victory in the coming battle.
The people of this world have entrusted their hopes to us. We cannot fail them.
...Nor those who roused me from my slumber.
Thank you for your company, my friend. Let us return to Amity.
Worry not, my friend. I am much revived for the fresh air─and your fine company, of course. Now then, let us turn our thoughts back to the task at hand.
Worry not, my friend. I am much revived for the fresh air─and your fine company, of course. Now then, let us turn our thoughts back to the task at hand.
Your Radiance. I have taken the liberty of quashing the vile rumors that your heir is possessed by a devil.
With the nation in the grip of war, we may rely on patriotic zeal to prevent them from resurfacing.
And what of Emet-Selch?
He has taken himself to the First, to usher that world to its end.
Or so I believe. He did not disclose the details of his mission, having ever preferred to work alone.
Even to those who have known him since the beginning, his actions can prove...unpredictable.
I am no stranger to his ways. He joys in playing me for a fool. Full many times have I been convinced I was acting of my own volition, only to discover all was as he willed it.
My dear grandfather...
On the subject of our esteemed colleague: his last report, though brief, did contain one item of interest.
You have doubtless wondered why the Scions of the Seventh Dawn have not taken the field of late.
It is because they are no longer in the Source.
The hero of the Scions has journeyed to the First─as have her comrades, albeit incompletely. Their bodies yet remain here in the Source.
This presents an opportunity. If we can defeat the Alliance prior to the Scions' return, we may eliminate their order at a stroke.
And with the Scions gone, none shall remain to thwart our plans. It will be but a matter of striking down the hero upon her homecoming.
Which, lest you forget, is essential to the realization of our objective. Of both of our objectives.
Through Hydaelyn's meddling, Her champions threaten to wrest the reins of fate from our grasp. The world is at risk of being dragged down the false path.
One which will never see man reclaim his true form.
'Tis unthinkable that he should supplant us, incomplete as he is. Such a devolution is abhorrent. And it must be stopped─before it is too late.
The hour is come, Your Radiance. Order your armies to march once more. Crush all who stand in your way.
This is your heart's desire, is it not? To seize a victory that is yours and yours alone─for the future of Garlemald!
Oh dear... You do not wear the mummer's motley well. I was never one to take an interest in tedious conflicts.
The whereabouts of my one true friend, however─they interest me greatly. I but hope the beasts of this “First” are providing her proper sport.
I would know every detail, Lord Zenos. Or would you rather I called you Elidibus?
...Hm. Unexpected. Most unexpected.
That immortality should be within the reach of one with a borrowed Echo.
You have outdone yourself, Zenos yae Galvus.
I have no particular attachment to that name─but I am rather fond of that body. Without it, I cannot enjoy my hunt to the fullest.
Your secrets or my flesh. I care not which you give me first. The choice is yours.
Right, so, while the two of you were away, I received word that everything is in place, meaning we can proceed with awakening the Talos.
Once we imbue the magic, it will stir itself and immediately carry out its designated function: namely, taking Mt. Gulg in its grasp.
Forename, we may be certain that Vauthry will not look on in idleness as we beat a path to his front door. Once our plans are set in motion, there will be no turning back.
So see to your preparations as meticulously as you may, and I will give the order to proceed as soon as you are ready.
Give the word, and I will relay the order to awaken the Talos.
It's quite all right. Better to take what time you require than set out unprepared.
Very well! Let us begin!
Word from the Exarch. All is set on his side, and we may proceed when ready.
Well, we have sufficient stone for our needs.
Likewise, preparations for the imbuing have been made according to thine exacting instructions.
Then you need only say the word!
Let us begin. See that everyone is in position.
We shall catch Vauthry, mountain and all!
Here it comes!
Hah hah! Yes! Yes! You've not lost your touch, you clever old bugger!
Do you see what they're doing!? If its hands are damaged, it won't be able to cling to the mountain! Oh, I knew this was a terrible idea!
Vauthry marshals the eaters to his defense. This was only to be expected.
We must try and draw as many of them down to the ground as possible. It may not be enough, but we have no other choice.
Is that─?
Such a heartless thing our sapling is! Cold and cruel and heartless!
Summon us in times of need, we expressly said─yet what should we find but the final battle joined without so much as a whisper of our name!
Yes, yes, we may also have said that we fae folk have no interest in the struggles of men─
But if our adorable sapling had come crying to us for help, we would of course have flown to her aid! Of course we would! What are we to do with her?
We are so very, very sad. You will play with us. Cheer us up again!
This I did not expect. But I will gladly accept the help.
I will send word to Y'shtola and the others. Join them at the foot of Mt. Gulg and be ready to make the ascent!
Everyone is here. Good.
The Talos has taken hold of the mountain. As planned, we will use its body as a bridge to reach Vauthry's sanctuary.
The sin eaters will make us work for every yalm, of course.
But we will carve a path through their ranks, and meet with their master, regardless.
'Tis a trivial concern, but I cannot help feeling self-conscious knowing that some of the Night's Blessed are watching.
In the guise of Master Matoya, I took great pains to cultivate an image of restraint. Yet I don't suppose they will be able to make out all that much from such a distance...meaning I may wreak havoc to my heart's content. I do believe I'm going to enjoy this.
Above us lies Vauthry's new paradise.
A paradise swarming with sin eaters, in which his own people have no place...
It ends here. And it ends now.
When our hunt for the Lightwardens began, I couldn't imagine ever being done with the task.
Yet here we are, ready to lay the last one low. We'll get you there, Forename. Mark my words!
That which now graspeth the mountain is no mere man of stone.
'Tis the hopes of all who have dwelled in this world, both in the past and in the present. 'Tis the prayers of all who yearn for peace, be they near or be they far.
Until Thancred freed me, I knew nothing of Norvrandt.
But in the course of our journey, I've come to love this land and those who call it home. And I will give my all to protect them.
How many eaters await us up there, do you suppose? A hundred? A thousand?
Not that it matters, of course. Whatever the odds, we will overcome them. Minfilia wanted this world saved, and save it we shall.
So it is you...
You will not defile my new paradise!
You call this a paradise? Don't make me laugh!
Well, that made short work of them!
Let us take care of the rest!
Hah, as if they were flies!
Ah, this fellow again. Just like old times.
Nice to finally settle that old score.
Scurrying about my domain like insects... I will not suffer it!
A palace? Did Vauthry build this?
We must be getting close.
Come no closer, filthy creatures!
What is that cube?
There is much we do not know about sin eaters.
I am righteousness!
And righteousness will prevail!
This place really isn't to my taste.
Bah, can't you do anything by yourselves!?
This Light... Vauthry channels it into his minions!
Very well, if you will not be discouraged...
Vauthry deigns to send us his favorite.
Stop them, damn you! I don't care what it takes!
It's the moment of truth.
Vauthry awaits.
No eaters remain to stand in our way.
I feel it above—a powerful light.
All has gone to plan thus far....To the extent there is a plan.
An eater that only makes the others fiercer. Lovely.
The end is near, my friends. We have found Vauthry's hiding place.
Unrepentant villains. Will you not be satisfied until you have brought disaster down upon your own heads?
By your wickedness, you stand to gain naught but ceaseless conflict!
Had you only entrusted your fate to me, there would have been peace for all.
You could have lived in bliss in my eternal paradise, free from the burdens of conscience and purpose!
Peace assumes many forms, and I do not doubt that you considered yours well worth the cost. I was even prepared to believe that the end might justify the means.
Ignorant as I was, I had hoped that you might mend your ways and join hands with us. That we might strive together for the happiness of all...
...But no more. Your actions cannot be reconciled with your words.
"Peace for all,“ you say, yet when you were threatened, your first act was to sacrifice your own people in order to save yourself.
If your paradise can be rebuilt so long as you alone survive, it exists not for the people. It exists solely for your twisted pleasure!
Hear me, Vauthry. The people won't submit to your will. For we each have our own.
I made a promise to a noble soul─a woman who saw fit to entrust me with her legacy─and I mean to keep it.
Everyone who stands with us has something precious, something that they cherish and would die to protect.
They know their own hearts. They know what they want for this world.
And by lending their strength to our cause, they have spoken!
No matter how hard you may try to bend the world to your will, we will never yield!
Silence! Not another word!
You presume to lecture me? Insolent worms! You will learn your place!
With my true powers awakened, I will expunge you like the filth you are. Your demise will serve as a reminder to all─
That I am the zenith of mankind and sin eater both, chosen to rule over creation by right of transcendence!
My very existence is virtuous! I am perfect! Immaculate!
He seems disinclined to grant us an audience.
Find Vauthry. We will hold the eaters here.
Come! Let's finish this!
Are you so determined to die? One last chance, villains: bow down and acknowledge your king. Your god!
Come, then! Prepare for judgment!
To me, my servants! Feast upon these villains and their foul sins!
Fine, fine! If you refuse to die...
Then you will suffer! Yes! That will be your punishment!
Receive of me my blessing and rise higher!
Suffer, suffer, suffer! Suffer and know your folly!
Damn you... Why do you not fall?
Why? WHYYY!?
Graaargh! It burns, it burns!
What...what is this?
The Light surges within me! Ahhh, such bliss!
I see now... This is the passion of my ascension...
Very well, I shall embrace this trial!
Your reckoning comes.
I shall excise the sin of your existence!
But...I am all-powerful...
One cannot help but pity Vauthry...
Finally, all the Lightwardens are gone...
Is that...Vauthry?
I see... It's finally over, then.
Now night will return to all of Norvrandt, bringing salvation to both of our two worlds...
Why? Why am I cast down...when it is you who are the villains?
Father told me...that I am hope. I am righteousness. That I am...a god...
That is why I was born...as man and sin eater both...
I kept the people safe! They respected me! Worshipped me!
How can this be? I should be the one...looking down at you...
Help me, damn you... I...am your god...
Look! The sky!
