Save your tears. The sultana yet lives.
You...
It was I who arranged this gathering.
And judging by your perplexed expressions, it would seem introductions are in order. I am Dewlala, head of the Order of Nald'thal, and member of the Syndicate.
What you said about the sultana─is it true? Is she alive?
Young lady─I understand you were with the sultana when she drank from the poisoned goblet and collapsed. Would I be correct in assuming that you did not personally verify Her Grace's vital signs?
Why ask, when 'tis plain you know the answer!
Calm yourself, General, and let me finish. The truth is not as you imagine it. You are all victims of a most ingenious ruse─a ruse conceived to eliminate the threat posed by Teledji Adeledji.
'Tis my belief that Teledji plotted the sultana's assassination alone, but that Lolorito caught wind of his plot, and exploited it to his own ends.
He sought to manipulate you into eliminating Teledji for him, and you duly obliged. At one fell swoop, he removed his two foremost rivals, all the while remaining above suspicion.
Gods strike me down for a fool... But the sultana─how can it be that she lives?
She lives because Lolorito willed it. Her own lady-in-waiting is but one of his many little birds; by her sleight of hand, the poison was switched for a less deadly draft before it could reach her mistress's lips.
Some manner of sedative, perchance...of a potency sufficient to induce a slumber like unto death.
Were I to guess, I would say Her Grace is being held somewhere, dreaming dreams of a brighter Ul'dah, even as we speak.
Oh, Nanamo...
I will never forgive Lolorito for his part in this.
Though Lolorito's hands are far from clean, they did pluck Her Grace from the jaws of death. That must count for something.
And though one may call the man's methods into question, it cannot be denied that he knows the value of stability─to the very gil, like as not. He craves power, 'tis true, but he has no desire to depose the sultana.
I had never taken sides in your feud with the Monetarists, but it was not for want of concern for our nation's welfare. Indeed, 'twas out of the desire to see order restored that I furnished your Far Eastern friends with information, and arranged this gathering.
I hope you are ready to work, General, for there is much work to be done. Our first priority must be to bring matters back into balance. Lest you forget Her Grace's words, the true wealth of Ul'dah lies in the health, happiness, and hopes of her people.
As for the more worldly kind of wealth, I am content to let Lolorito help himself to whatever Teledji Adeledji left behind.
You, meanwhile, must do that which you alone can do: rescue Her Grace and take your place at her side once more. For her sake...and that of our nation.
I had not counted on Prioress Dewlala herself appearing. In my defense, my suspicions regarding the sultana proved more prescient.
Much remains to be done, but in rescuing Raubahn, we have taken a vital first step towards resolving matters in Ul'dah. We couldn't have done it without you, Forename. Thank you.
Tataru? ...Yes, General Raubahn is now in safe hands.
What? ...Another assault? Very well. We shall return at once. Pray notify the count of our coming.
It would seem we face another crisis. The Dravanians are preparing to resume their siege of the Holy See.
...Though I am loath to abandon the sultana to her fate, we lack the necessary evidence to act upon Dewlala's claims.
That being the case, I propose we leave Marshal Tarupin and the others to investigate, and return with all haste to Ishgard.
Ah, there you are! Sorry for cutting your reunion with General Raubahn short.
I wouldn't have bothered you, but the city's awash with rumors of another Dravanian attack, and Lord Haurchefant was desperate to get hold of you. Speaking of whom, he and the others are waiting for you inside, so you'd better head in!
My friend! I thank you for answering our call with such alacrity! As I am sure you are now aware, the Dravanians are once more gathering for war.
Mistress Surname, Master Leveilleur─I must apologize for this abrupt summons, but we thought it best to have Mistress Tataru contact you by the most direct means available.
When the Observatorium's bells toll, 'tis a warning that cannot be ignored. The Holy See has ordered that we make ready for battle.
In case you haven't heard, a band of trappers returning from the west claim they saw a cloud of dragons big enough to dim the midday sky!
Nidhogg's minions gather once more for war...
But I would not have you take up arms in another of our conflicts. When first you came to Ishgard, I offered you my protection. If I cannot ensure your safety here, I cannot well accept your aid, much less ask for it.
Scions of the Seventh Dawn, you are faced with a choice: to remain in a besieged Ishgard, or seek sanctuary elsewhere. I would not presume to influence your decision, but I must ask that you make it swiftly, lest our enemies force your hand.
Though we flee to the ends of the world, 'twould seem that no place in this troubled age is free of strife. Once more the Horde descends upon Ishgard, and once more her weary defenders must take up spear and bow.
The count would have us seek shelter from this storm, but I, for one, grow tired of running. If we are to shine the light of dawn, we must do so in the sight of our fellow man, not hunkered in a hole.
What say you, Forename?
Then fight we shall! Let it never be said that we abandoned our allies in their hour of need!
...That is your answer? By the Twelve, how could you─ But, wait. Mayhap remaining in the city would not best serve our friends and allies. Mayhap there is another choice...
...That is your answer? By the Twelve, how could you─ But, wait. Mayhap remaining in the city would not best serve our friends and allies. Mayhap there is another choice...
The choice we make this day may have grave implications for our order. It is only right that Tataru should have a say. Come, let us all meet outside and discuss the path that lies before us.
Ishgard cannot well endure another assault. Even should her knights succeed in turning back the Horde, the casualties will be catastrophic.
But what other choice do we have? It's not like we can talk it over with them. Dragons and men aren't exactly on speaking terms.
...With certain notable exceptions.
You don't mean...Iceheart!?
When last you spoke with her, she lamented her crimes, did she not?
Then there remains a sliver of hope. If we can persuade Iceheart to act as our intermediary, we may yet be able to convince Nidhogg to abandon his bloody course.
If there is to be a meeting, I would accompany you.
...Estinien!?
Even with your intermediary, Nidhogg's bloodrage may render him deaf to reason. However, the mere attempt may afford our forces precious time to prepare.
Of course...you might also consider a more direct approach to ending this conflict. With the power of the Eye at my disposal, and the vaunted strength of the Warrior of Light, we could conceivably slay the beast outright...
If we are to risk a face-to-face meeting with the dread wyrm, I for one would feel safer in the company of the Azure Dragoon. However, I should only turn to your lance if my words failed to find their mark. Is that clear?
Perfectly. I shall assume that Iceheart enjoys similar diplomatic protection until instructed otherwise.
A word of advice: think carefully before divulging the particulars of this plan to Ser Aymeric. 'Twould not do to have the lord commander accused of consorting with heretics.
Indeed. I thank you for your counsel, Estinien. We shall be honored to have you with us.
I am glad to be of service.
We have chosen a difficult road─yet even should we succeed in winning Iceheart to our cause, our plans for parley will swiftly come to naught should the Holy See decide to strike first against the Horde.
We must petition the lord commander's aid ere we set forth. I only hope that Ser Aymeric will be willing to muzzle Ishgard's forces on the strength of our vague assurances.
Tataru─I would ask that you remain at Fortemps Manor and inform the count of our decision. Tell him that the Scions of the Seventh Dawn mean to do all in their power to ensure that Ishgard and her people survive.
Yes, sir!
