Welcome, madam! What can I offer you today?
Welcome, madam! What can I offer you today?
Wait, is that Mistress Alisaie I see there!? My word, how long has it been!?
Far too long...
Meet Dickon, the owner of the Last Stand. I used to frequent his café on occasion, in between lessons at the Studium.
That seems like an age ago now. I remember hearing that you and Master Alphinaud had set sail for Eorzea, but then you never came back.
Lately there's been gossip about your father disowning the pair of you. Everything all right at home?
It's...complicated. And I hadn't expected complete strangers to be so familiar with our situation quite so quickly. Everyone has an opinion, it seems...
Well, it is House Leveilleur. No matter how discreet Master Fourchenault may have been, news of your family's doings never stays secret for long.
Things being what they are, what brings you back to the city now, of all times?
We have questions, and only Sharlayan has the answers. Tell me, Master Dickon: have you heard anything about an apocalypse called the Final Days?
What, like the end of the world? Nothing like that, I'm afraid. And that's what you're here to find? Information on this...apocalypse?
Yes, whatever we can learn. Unfortunately, your patrons appear to be unwilling to speak with me.
I wish there was more I could do to help...
Hm, but maybe there is. You're a visitor to Sharlayan, aren't you?
Then few will know your face. We should be able to pass you off as a server with none the wiser.
We just finished preparing a few orders. Strike up some friendly conversation while you're setting down the food, and you might just get the answers you're looking for.
Not a bad idea. I hate to ask, but...what do you think?
That's the spirit! Pay attention, now, and I'll explain where each of these dishes needs to go.
The tea set is for the chatty group sitting by the water's edge.
The omelette is for one of our regulars─a Highlander by the name of Gisla. She's sitting at an outside table with a friend of hers.
Behind them, you should see a Miqo'te gentleman. He ordered the oven-baked lobster.
Got all that? If you're not sure, just ask and I'll explain again. Good luck!
Any troubles? Remember: the tea set goes to the group by the water.
The omelette is for Gisla, a Highlander woman sitting outside with her friend.
Last but not least, our famous lobster goes to the Miqo'te man seated directly behind those two ladies.
I think you'll be better off if I stay here, out of sight. Find out what you can, and there'll be a hot cup of coffee waiting for you.
You work here, don't you? I'm still waiting on that charming little tea set...
Excuse me, I didn't order this! Where is my tea set?
Excuse me, I didn't order this! Where is my tea set?
Oh, my tea set! Lovely, thank you!
...The Telopho-who? I'm sorry, I've never heard of them, or their “final days.”
My friends and I are somewhat uninformed when it comes to current events. Now, if you wanted to hear about ritual arcane practices of the Sixth Astral Era─common or esoteric─then I'd be happy to talk your ear off...
Ahem, I only ordered the tea set. I can't possibly eat this as well, so if you would be so kind...?
I always like to order this when I'm discussing arcane theory with my peers. It's my favorite treat!
Gods above, I'm starving! I've never known the service to be this slow...
Is this on the house? Because I'm not paying for oven-baked lobster I didn't order. Now, where is my omelette?
Ah, finally! Two, four, six, eight!♪Let's dig in─no time to waste─♪
What? The Telophoroi? Ah, yes! I remember seeing the name in the latest gazette.
That and some grand claim about the end of days. Same old senseless warmongering. When will these fools grow tired of spilling each other's blood?
Best stay out of it, I say. The Forum made the right choice, and I fully support our decision to remain neutral!
I know I didn't order this, but I'm beginning to wish I had. It smells divine...
The Last Stand really does make the best omelettes in the world. The fluffiest egg. The tartest sauce. I could eat it every day for a year!
Gods, the anticipation... I've heard it melts in your mouth like the most succulent roast ever made!
Er, you don't need to butter me up, you know... I've already ordered one of the most expensive things on the menu.
At last, the oven-baked lobster is mine! You have no idea how long I've scrimped and saved and suffered to afford this heavenly dish...
The Final Days? This is the first I've heard of it.
Although, that would explain why my friend has been rushed off his feet. It must be a busy time to be a gleaner.
Hm? You don't know what a gleaner is? They're...collectors, of a sort. Travel the world procuring things that we haven't got here in Sharlayan─priceless books, unusual live specimens, and so forth.
So named for those folk who trail after the reapers in the fields, picking up every grain which was missed. Aye, by all accounts, gleaning is a most meticulous and demanding profession.
If these Telophoroi make good on their audacious threats, then many uncatalogued rarities could be lost forever. Why else would the gleaners be buzzing about in such a frenzy?
Watch the harbor, and you'll see what I mean─they're carting loads in from the docks all day. It's never been this hectic before. Not like this.
I've wanted to try this meal ever since I saw it served at another table. Ah, the aroma alone was worth every gil I scraped together!
I hope you and Mistress Alisaie got what you needed! ...She must be fond of you, eh? I've never known her to bring anyone to the café before.
Any trouble with the customers? Were you able to get anyone talking?
Interesting... They seem unaware of the Final Days, aside from whatever vague news the gazettes are printing.
Even Dickon had nothing to offer, and he's the best source of gossip in the city. Hmmm... If the Forum does have secret knowledge, then they've done an impressive job of ensuring no one whispers it in the wrong ear.
In any case, thank you for playing the part so well! Here─that cup of coffee I promised.
But let's enjoy our drinks somewhere else, shall we? Maybe behind the peristyle, away from the gossips and their wagging tongues...
Yes, this should do nicely. Out of the wind, and out of sight.
When our father disowned us, I couldn't believe what I was hearing.
It wasn't until much later that his words began to sink in. That I began to feel the weight of what it meant.
Do you remember when the decision was made to come to Sharlayan?
G'raha said that the Forum was determined to keep us in the dark, and that Father's venomous “performance” was part of that strategy. To keep us at arm's length.
Perhaps it was. Father argued with Grandfather on many occasions, but never with such...dismissive contempt.
And...when he demanded what justifies the sacrifices we make in war...I honestly didn't know what to say.
Neither did Alphinaud, I know, but...never, for one moment, did I believe we had made the wrong choice. So all I could do was fume silently.
It was only afterwards that I realized how childish I had been. How being stubborn and self-righteous must run in the family.
If I could've just mustered a civil response, then things might've turned out differently...
They must be ferrying goods to Labyrinthos.
A vast complex beneath the island.
Sharlayan is famous for archiving knowledge from around the world. Well, that knowledge is not preserved exclusively in dusty tomes and desiccated samples.
Our “living” library─comprised of all manner of flora and fauna─is housed and studied within that underground facility.
...Still, that did seem to be an unusually large shipment. When I lived here, it was rare to even see such cargo transported by boat.
Wait. Didn't you hear something in the Last Stand about the gleaners coming and going more than usual?
I think they're the ones we saw manning those boats. And gleaners answer to the Forum...
If the appearance of the Telophoroi prompted this sudden burst of activity, then Labyrinthos may hold a clue as to what the Forum is planning!
We should tell the others what we've learned about the gleaners.
Go on ahead to Noumenon, and I'll join you in a moment─Master Dickon will want his cups back!
Is that coffee I smell? Did I miss the tea break?
Where is Alisaie? I thought she was with you.
My loyal assistant returns! There is a lexicon on the first floor that I need you to─ Ah. You've found something, haven't you?
Welcome back, Forename. Been for a walk and cleared your head, have you?
Not exactly. We did some impromptu investigating and turned up information on the gleaners...
It makes sense. The gleaners take their requests directly from institutions and bureaucrats, but as you say, they ultimately answer to the Forum.
A sudden and significant increase in gleaner traffic and in cargo... It certainly gives the impression of an overarching plan being put into motion.
Let us see what theory we can build from the facts...
As Y'shtola observed earlier, Noumenon's archives appear to contain no information concerning the Final Days.
Coupled with what Forename and Alisaie learned at the Last Stand, we can be reasonably sure that most Sharlayans know nothing of that particular period of ancient history.
Yet my father and his colleagues are not only familiar with the Final Days, but are also somehow certain that the destruction being perpetrated by the Telophoroi is wholly unlike these apocalyptic events...
Moreover, the Forum claims to be so occupied by a duty of such pressing importance that they saw fit to unanimously deny Eorzea's request for aid.
And now the gleaners, official agents of the state, have been mobilized on an unprecedented scale.
I do not think it a stretch to conclude that the gleaners' recent activities are in service to the Forum's secretive ends.
In which case, our next course of action seems obvious: we visit Labyrinthos and assess the situation for ourselves. And if we're lucky, the gleaners will be far more receptive to our questions.
I'm glad you approve! You won't be disappointed, I promise!
Oh, I would hate to spoil the surprise!
I understand not everyone is the studious type. Consider this a welcome change of pace, then!
As for myself, there are a few more subjects I should like to research. I may join you later, but feel free to leave behind your borrowed books and be on your way. I'll see to it that each is returned to its proper place.
That would be a great help. Thank you, Raha!
Let's head down the stairs over there, and I'll show you where the entrance is.
Watch your step in Labyrinthos. It's rather more perilous than a simple storehouse. Although that will likely make the experience all the more attractive to an adventurer like you!
Ready? Labyrinthos is not too far from here, but you may find the path a bit disorienting.
I'll take the lead, so stay close!
Off we go, then!
It's pleasant here amongst the trees...
But we really should move along.
Over this way!
Now we run.Try to keep up!
Keep to the path.Straight ahead!
We cross this bridge.
Up here.
The Rostra...Not far now.
Here we are! Through this door and down the stairs.
You did remember to attune to the shard back there, didn't you? It will make your life much easier if you need to come back in a hurry. Otherwise, we should keep moving!
You didn't take a wrong turn into the Rostra there, did you? I doubt the Forum would take kindly to you barging into a private session.
I've not been to Labyrinthos in the longest time. Even as a student, my visits were few and far between.
How did the Forum learn of the Final Days, and exactly how much do they know? More to the point, what do they intend to do about it? Hopefully the answer to at least one of those questions lies below...
We're all here now, yes? I've taken the liberty of securing permission for our group's descent.
Right, everyone onto the lift and down we go!
Deep beneath the scholars' city shines a false sun within a fabricated sky.
In any any exist those who consider the floor and extension of their bookshelves, and this vault's architects surely belonged to that special breed.
If the stack grows too high, start a new one. If no room remains, then make more rooms.
A simple solution at first. And then, bit by bit...a profound transformation.
Knowledge buried beneath knowledge—a growing, creeping labyrinth from which there is no escape.
Not what you expected? I must admit, the artifice is very convincing.
But I assure you that we are beneath Sharlayan itself. The breeze you feel, the flowing waters you hear─all created by the hand of man.
The island is volcanic, you see, and once upon a time this great hollow must have been a reservoir for magma.
It was discovered some four hundred years ago, at which point it was repurposed as a storage facility for scrolls and samples and such. Renovations have continued with nigh on no interruption to this day, with the lower levels still undergoing expansion.
Aren't those people gleaners?
Aye, judging by their dress. They are said to work alone, as a rule, but 'twould seem that rule is being enthusiastically broken today.
It may be as you suspected─that they are engaged in a task apart from the norm.
Let's spread out and get some answers, then!
Ugh...
Did you call to me just now?
No? How odd. I must be a bit dizzy from the descent.
I-I'll be fine, I'm sure. Let's get to work, shall we?
Most of those gathered here appear to be gleaners. Why don't you wander around and try making small talk?
Nay, I am not shirking my duties. I've not been down here in an age, and wished to get my bearings before I went bumbling about.
From what I can see, however, there is naught obviously out of place. It seems we shall have to resort to discreet inquiries, as usual.
Excuse me, are you a gleaner? If you don't mind, I have some questions to ask...
...Hmmm, fascinating, but could we go back to what you were saying earlier?
