Oh! Is that Master Reeq? Then you are his, dare I say...friend?
Forename, allow me to introduce you to my father and mother...
Father, this is my traveling companion...and dear friend, Forename.
...She and I have resolved to hunt a particularly deadly sin eater.
Indeed, I cannot overstate how terribly dangerous this eater is─that to pursue it is to court death itself. However, when we at last triumph over the fiend, all of Norvrandt shall sing our praises!
...Won't that be wonderful, Father...?
...So long as you do not sully our good name, you are free to hunt whatever quarry you desire. I can do without all the petty details.
Now then, how much do you require this time? Out with it. Oh, never mind. Just give the boy my coinpurse, would you? I am sure it will suffice for his trivial pursuits─
That is why you are here, is it not? Another handout? Don't play coy. You've never been any good at it.
You know, I honestly don't know why I came here! Keep your coin, Father! We're leaving, Forename! Right now!
Oh dear... Master Reeq seemed awfully upset...
Forgive me, Forename, but I would forgo the wine on this occasion. Father's lackluster reception has put me in rather dour spirits.
As you may have gathered from our exchange, I am a free citizen of Eulmore. Owing to my parents' considerable wealth, I have enjoyed a relatively privileged upbringing. Privileged...and unbearably boring, which is why I quit the city and resolved to become a bounty hunter.
I am no fool, though. I am well aware of my fortunate circumstances, which is why I elected to conceal them from the people of the Crystarium. People are wont to jump to uncharitable conclusions.
I feel as though you and I have established a rapport, though, and so I thought it best to bring you into my confidence. I pray you refrain from telling others.
Now then─since Lanbyrd has decided to turn this into a race, we have no choice but to oblige him and slay Andreia before he does. This calls for a veritable army of hired hands.
Alas, in a fit of frustration, I refused Father's coin. Without additional resources, we have no choice but to conduct the search by ourselves...
Moreover, I am rather embarrassed to admit that I can pay you only a token sum at this time... B-But I trust that will not deter you from joining me anon!?
Really...? I mean, uh, of course you weren't! Perish the thought! Hah hah hah!
Please, do not toy with me so! If nothing else, think of the fame and fabulous reward we'll receive when we finally slay Andreia? Surely that is incentive enough for you to stay the proverbial course!?
Forename, my friend! Thank the gods you're here!
Ever since we parted ways I've been exhausting myself running all over the Crystarium, questioning anyone and everyone, hoping someone might have seen Andreia, but alas...
Well...of course! Surely this is the limit of what a man with meager financial resources can accomplish?
But never mind all that! For it but recently dawned on me that the vision you beheld of Renda-Rae's past could hold the clues for which we have been desperately searching!
When you first described it to me, I felt as though I had heard it before...and I had! My wet nurse had told me the exact same story when I was still a boy!
'Twas a tale of a courageous hunter who together with her comrades embarked on a quest to slay a notorious mark─a great horned beast.
They came upon their quarry in a desert, and there attempted to lay it low. Alas, the beast had a singular strength, and the hunter a fatal weakness, and so in the ensuing struggle her comrades were killed, leaving her, the sole survivor, to swear vengeance.
Would you not agree that your vision is a perfect match for this tale?
Then there can be no doubt! Renda-Rae is the celebrated hunter─the hero I so admired in my childhood!
After that tragic day, the hunter resolved not to rely upon others and instead slew the beast by herself. She somehow found a way to compensate for her weakness...
Anyway, my recollection of the tale is likely riddled with errors. We should ask Miss Olvara to recount it in full. She was a bounty hunter herself before she entered into our service, you know!
Also, in light of all this, I should share with you an interesting theory concerning all the Virtues I heard from a fellow hunter. Apparently, each appears to be driven by particular memories─moments that forever changed each of these fallen heroes...
Makes sense, doesn't it? Renda-Rae being a hunter of notorious marks in life and in death. I don't know why it never occurred to me before!
But if that is indeed the reason for why she behaves as she does, then the more we learn about Renda-Rae's adventures, the better our chances of predicting where she'll turn up.
All the more reason to go and see my former wet nurse. Miss Olvara lives in Gatetown, on Kholusia. Let us be off, then!
