Keep a respectful distance from the alpacas, if you please. For your sake and for theirs.
Keep a respectful distance from the alpacas, if you please. For your sake and for theirs.
<shiver> That is a lot of alpacas. Still, we know the head ledger could be here somewhere...
I can't let fear deter me. N-Not to say that I'm scared, of course!
Excuse me, is one of these workers Tobli?
Tobli? Oh yes, he likes to mingle with the ranch hands and keep an eye on things. I can't tell you which one he is, though.
You...can't? Is this part of the contest?
All I can say is that Tobli often mentions his favorite pungent subject.
He also can't resist a profitable trade─though who among us could, am I right? Still, if you bring him a very good deal, he might let his identity slip.
Heh, so it's like a game.
Easy enough. All I have to do is offer Tobli a deal he can't ignore! No problem at all!
...Well, maybe one problem. I don't think my purse is deep enough to pay everyone we think might be Tobli. Let's ask some questions first to narrow down the field.
Great! We can meet back here to share our impressions!
I'll sniff out the head ledger in a heartbeat! You'll see!
Am I Tobli...?
Yes...yes, that's me. Excellent work from the Third Promise and her entourage. Sharp instincts. Shall we commence the rite of succession, then...?
Well...? Are you not ready to begin the contest...?
You think I might be Tobli? Hahaha, well maybe I am!
All I will say is that, in this village, none have reared more alpacas than I!
The Third Promise must demonstrate her worth!
Ah, a visitor from across the salt, if I'm not mistaken.
Be warned: the alpacas will spit if you startle them. I suggest you keep your movements slow and deliberate.
Hurry along. I've coats to brush and smelly spit to mop up.
Hm...? Well, obviously I'm not Tobli! I-I mean...oops. I shouldn't have said that.
You're meant to find out for yourself who Tobli is, or if an elector is even in the village at all. Good luck!
Remember: I never actually said there was an elector in Wachunpelo!
I see we're both done with our interrogations.
So, who do you think it is? I have my suspicions, but let's hear your pick.
That loud, boastful fellow? I suppose he could be Tobli. Only one way to find out!
Nothing would make me happier than knowing your identity. So how about we make a deal and you tell me the truth. I have money!
Hahaha, then I agree to your trade.
Done and done! As for my part of the bargain...
I am not Tobli. Not the head ledger, and not the head rancher; just a humble ranch hand!
You're not him!?
Dammit, Forename, I trusted you! That coin could've bought me three hundred gourmet tacos!
...No, I can't let this taco tragedy distract me from what matters most. We need to determine which one is Tobli!
Hm, he seemed...unconvincing to me. But if that's your choice, then that's who we'll talk to!
Tobli! I offer you a deal: the truth of who you are in exchange for a tidy sum. What do you say?
I say hand over the coin...
The truth is... I'm not even a ranch hand. I just like to come by and watch the alpacas.
What!? You don't even work here!?
I knew I should've gone with my gut on this one!
...But now's not the time to mourn wasted coin. We need to regroup and rethink this!
Ah, the worker so intent on stable chores. I had my eye on that one, too! Time to rip the mask off our mystery ranch hand...so to speak.
We know it's you, Tobli! And to prove it, I propose a deal: a generous sum of coin for confirmation of your true identity!
An offer I gladly accept.
