The next flight to Yak T'el will be leaving shortly. Passengers are asked to keep hands, legs, and luggage inside the dirigible at all times.
A-Are we sure that thing will stay in the air? ...All the way to Yak T'el!?
A-Are you ready!? Bags packed and, er, good-byes said!? There's no going back once we lift off!
N-Not that I'm nervous or anything. I'm just making sure that you're not nervous!
Oh, who am I kidding...my knees won't stop shaking. Hey, will you hold my hand? J-Just until I've settled my nerves.
You're the nicest person I've ever met, Forename. I'll try not to crush your hand...
That stick-in-the-mud!? He'd never let me live it down!
There she is! Third Promise, wait just a moment!
Mablu and Tobli! Of course, of course─I'll wait as long as you need!
Sorry to delay you, but we were able to discover the origin of Krile's earring!
Is that so?
You said before that it gained popularity in Yok Tural as a protective ward for travelers, correct?
That's right! We tracked down the elderly merchant to whom first sales are attributed.
According to him, the design imitates an accessory worn by a foreign mage he met at market some twenty years ago. Little did he know that charming taste of salt would prove to be a commercial triumph!
A foreign mage wearing this earring could only be Grandfather. Did the merchant happen to mention which market?
One in Yak T'el─to where it seems you are already bound.
What luck. Then I shall seek my next clue once we arrive.
Is it mere coincidence that brought my grandfather there? Or...
Yet another discovery to look forward to.
Thank you both for coming all this way.
Anything for the Third Promise! Good luck with the rest of the rite!
Th-Thanks! I won't let you down. I've just got to board this dirigible and...and I'm as good as there!
Last call for passengers to Yak T'el!
...I really hope she wins.
Yak T'el will test her mettle, without a doubt.
The next Dawnservant must be willing to bear the full weight of this nation's history...no matter how heavy it may be.
The fierce Xbr'aal hunters who laid claim to this land call it the azure forest—Yak T'el.
Battered by meteors in ancient times and colored mesmerizing shades of blue and green by nature, it is easy to understand why the place is so named.
It is here, where the Xbr'aal and Mamool Ja once battled for dominance, that the rite of succession would reach its climax...
Are you all right?
I've never been good with heights...
The vegetation is far denser than in Kozama'uka.
I suggest you pay more attention to the ground unless you want to walk straight into a cenote.
A cenote?
Sinkholes filled with rain and groundwater. Many meteors fell here long ago, it is said, and after they struck the earth, it became susceptible to erosion.
Deep as some of the pits are, you'll not climb out in a hurry should you take a tumble.
So don't take a tumble.
It was one time...
Is the Xbr'aal community depicted in the Lay of Repast close by?
Aye. We need but follow the path a short way west.
Right, I can't stand here with my knees knocking forever. Let's get going!
Well, that journey was delightful. The wind was fair and the vessel hardly rocked at all.
I can hardly fathom how difficult travel must have been before the Second Promise introduced dirigibles. Can you imagine having to walk all this way?
Would it kill Erenville to give me the benefit of the doubt? Or the benefit of a second chance?
Worry not─Krile and I will ensure our Promise doesn't wind up at the bottom of one of these cenotes.
With thicker vegetation comes reduced visibility. I advise you to keep someone in sight at all times.
See? No tumbles! ...Thanks to Krile and Alisaie, but it still counts.
Is that Iq Br'aax over there, I wonder?
Take care not to get separated. I'd hate to lose you to this rampant undergrowth.
For all of Erenville's insistence, I have yet to discover anything particularly blue about this forest.
Good, everyone's accounted for.
Iq Br'aax is up ahead. Let's be on our way.
What's so blue about this forest? You'll see.
Are all cenotes this deep, I wonder?
Hah! I've fallen into High Tide Harbor enough times to be a professional diver─there's no way I'd fall into something like this on accident!
Just so you know, I shall be very cross if you push me.
Erenville was not exaggerating about the cenotes. It would be a grueling ordeal to climb out of one.
Well, thankfully we made it here without incident. Let's not dally any longer.
Are we ready to proceed? I am eager to learn more about Iq Br'aax and Xbr'aal customs.
We should press on. The other candidates may be well ahead of us.
Ready to head on in?
Our first task should be finding the elector. Hopefully our relative tardiness will not reflect poorly upon us...
