What happened to the big fella? Ah, forget it. Just bring the next batch and toss 'em in the back─ain't like they'll complain if you're rough!
Well, ain't you a strong one. Four in one trip! Reckon there's no need for me to lend you a hand with the rest, then.
Come on, come on! Let's finish this before I die of old age.
That should be all of 'em! Thanks for the help.
Reckon it won't take too long to deliver all the corpses to the lichyard. Even so, you might want to hurry back an' tell 'em that our work here is done.
I see that you decided to heed my advice. I pray that, in doing so, you found some small measure of peace.
The first carriage from Vesper Bay arrived not long ago, and we have begun preparing your comrades for burial. I had a hand in the initial rites, and I...I would like you to know that, for many, death came quickly.
Rest assured that we will treat them with the utmost respect, and do everything we can to shepherd them to Thal's realm.
Although we can perform rites for most of the Scions, there is one whom we cannot accept. We would like you to return this one to her people, the sylphs of Little Solace.
It is only proper that she be given into the care of her friends and family, so that they may mourn her in accordance with sylphic traditions.
This one is surprised to see walking one in Little Solace. How can these ones assist walking one?
<gasp> Noraxia!? But...this one does not understand...
Komuxio, this one has heard much wailing. This one would know what has caused such distress.
Terrible news, elder one! Awful news!
Walking one has returned to Little Solace? But why? These ones have not requested further aid.
Noraxia!? How did this happen? Explain everything to this one, at once!
So...not only Noraxia, but many of walking one's friends were lost as well.
<sob> Noraxia...
Noraxia went to Thanalan at the behest of this one...
Walking one was with Noraxia at the end... Tell this one that Noraxia was brave. Tell this one that Noraxia did not suffer.
This one is glad to hear walking one's words.
Thank you for bringing Noraxia home, walking one.
These ones also wish to thank praying ones. Tell praying ones these ones will remember this kindness.
This one demands vengeance! Imperial ones must pay! Imperial ones must suffer!
When the time comes for walking ones to face imperial ones, do not forget these ones! These ones would not have Noraxia's death be for naught! These ones will fight!
We thank you for your service to the church and to the sylphs. You may be pleased to know that, in your absence, we interred the remaining Scions in the lichyard.
Perhaps you still wish to do more for your friends. If so, I would remind you that you have already done so much on their behalf. Please, take a rest and set aside your burdens for now, Forename.
I...I'm not imagining it, Forename. I know I'm being watched...
This is different─sinister. It is as if I am...under observation.
The feeling comes and goes...but I felt it when last I ventured outside. Yes. I know I felt it. Will you look outside for me...please? It will only take a moment.
You were attacked, weren't you? Are you unharmed? Thank the gods.
I knew it. He was watching me. ...But why was he watching me?
What did he want with me? Did he, perhaps...know something of my past? If only I could have asked him...
I...I need to think. Please, allow me a moment alone. Wait. Father Iliud must hear of this. Will you tell him for me? It's important. I think others may come for me again.
Heavens forfend... That such a thing should happen on holy ground! Do you have any idea who this man was? Did you notice anything distinctive about his garb or possessions?
This...this is Garlean steel. Which means the man who was watching Marques was...
Make haste to Camp Drybone at once! We must summon the Immortal Flames before more imperials come!
Hmph. I fondly hoped that I might be the first to speak with you... Would that I had been so fortunate.
At ease, adventurer─I come not on behalf of the Empire. On the contrary, I mean to revive the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.
And to that end...
I have come in search of a legend─the greatest engineer of our time. Master Cid Garlond─I have come for you.
I fear you are mistaken, child. He is but a poor soul who bore witness to the horrors at Carteneau.
I beg of you, leave us in peace...
Wait... I...
Hear me, Cid! Eorzea needs you!
Cid, was it? Here...these belong to you.
I thought you bore the mark of greatness... It seems that I was right.
Our time together was all too brief, but it felt as though my son had returned to me. You have brought joy to an old man's life.
But it is time for you to help those who truly need you.
Who...are you?
Alphinaud Leveilleur, at your service.
As a Scion of the Seventh Dawn, I stand against our primal and imperial foes─as my grandfather once did.
'Tis no secret what befell our order at the Waking Sands. Word has already spread across Eorzea.
The repercussions are far greater than you realize. In the wake of the Calamity, the three city-states focused their efforts solely on reconstruction.
Leaving the Scions to combat the primal threat unaided.
And lo, we are all but destroyed. Yet even as the nations mourn our demise, and abandon what little hope they have left, we cannot forsake our duty─now least of all.
The Ixal have summoned Garuda once more, and she torments the people of Coerthas as we speak.
Her appetite for destruction far exceeds that of other primals.
Worse, in her present incarnation, our Baldesion colleagues believe she surpasses both Ifrit and Titan in strength.
Yet therein lies an opportunity. Were we somehow to defeat Garuda, it would serve as a warning to the other beast tribes that even their mightiest gods can be felled.
If we are to face our foe, we must first circumvent the tempest that shields her sanctuary.
And for that, we need an airship─your airship, Cid.
I...I have...an airship?
Yes, Cid, you do. Your very own airship.
It was last seen in the skies over Gridania, not long before the Calamity, so let us begin our search there.
A-An airship...? My airship...?
W-Wait...
Come, let us put an end to the primals! Together, we will show the world that the Scions are still a force to be reckoned with!
They need my airship... They need...me.
What a curious twist of fate that Master Cid Garlond would at last be found within our church. It defies imagination...
Beg your pardon, Forename. You wish to find his airship, yes?
I know not how much truth there is to it, but there is a tale known as, “The Final Flight of the Enterprise,” which grew popular in the wake of the Calamity─much like “The Great Goobbue Wall of Ul'dah.” It states that the Enterprise flew northwest from Gridania towards Coerthas.
If true, the airship would have passed through the North Shroud, likely over Fallgourd Float─the closest settlement to Coerthas. Mayhap the Serpents stationed there have records of the events that transpired that day.
I had hoped you might rest from your journeys for a time, but I see that the world still has need of you and the Scions. Pray look after yourself and Cid, Forename.
Is there aught I can assist you with, miss?
The Enterprise? You speak of Master Garlond's ship, yes?
Aye, I needn't refer to the records. I know that the airship was sighted overhead five years ago, clearly bound for Coerthas. What became of it after that I cannot say.
If you wish to know more, pray speak with Vortefaurt at Florentel's Spire. He was on duty that day and saw it with his own eyes.
I am unsure what it is you hope to accomplish, though. Even should you locate the ship, would you not need a man of Master Garlond's caliber to fly it? I hear tell that the machinery is fiendishly complex...
