Oh, it was no choice of mine, believe me! I was attacked by beasts on the way here, and barely escaped with my scales intact. My coat was not so lucky.
I'm actually a toolmaker from Tuliyollal, and was dressed quite smartly─all the better to show the Pelu I am a man who takes pride in his appearance and therefore his work as well. But now look at me...
Well, sir, this is your lucky day!
What a splendid poncho! This would be the perfect replacement for the coat I lost!
We'd be willing to part with it, if you'd like to make a trade. For one of your fine tools, perhaps?
What about this hatchet? I crafted it myself and will vouch for its quality.
The blade looks sharp, the haft well made. I'd value it at one pel in the thousands column.
Oho, from five hundred to a thousand? We have a deal!
Wonderful! A fine garment such as this should put me on even footing with any Pelu merchant.
Like the eponymous owner of Miplu's Mate Garden, for one. Her field hands use hatchets to harvest the mate, and I thought to impress her with the tool I sold you.
No matter, I have other wares to sell. Glad I am to have met you!
Did you hear that? We've already found our next buyer. To Miplu's Mate Garden we go!
Yes, but it's a fair distance on foot. We should take alpacas!
These ones will be the calm type...right?
These ones will be the calm type...right?
Here we go again...riding alpacas...
Well done recognizing that toolmaker as a potential customer! If you've a mind to change professions, you'd make an excellent merchant!
We've been doing so well! Even Tobli would have to agree...
Before we get moving... You should be the one to hold this.
With that, I suppose we should hop on the alpacas Mablu has so kindly provided...
If I'm going to catch a wild alpaca after this, I can't be shying away from the tame ones. Not that I'm scared of them, you understand. Or their nasty, disgusting, foul-smelling spit...
Ready to go? Let's mount up!
And it's off to the mate fields we go!
Please don't spit, please don't spit...
You'll be fine! These ones are accustomed to people!
I still don't trust them...
You have a knack for riding, no matter what you say!
Without our alpaca friends, we Pelu would never have become traveling merchants. Can you imagine walking all the way across Tural?
I swear, that mountain is too tall to be real.
Worqor Zormor... Wasn't that the name?
A forbidding sight, isn't it? One I've never appreciated up close.
You have to take the long way around the cliffs to get there─to the highlands belonging to the Yok Huy.
So, Mablu, you said you were learning about the peddler profession. You don't care for ranch work?
No, no, I love it! I love working with alpacas!
But becoming a peddler has always been a dream of mine.
It's just... I'm not sure I have the talent for it.
If I can help you buy the taming saddle, though, then it'd be proof that I can do this after all.
In that case, you'd best get ready to be a merchant!
Look, we're almost there!
We made it...and without a single smelly incident.
I sent the alpacas back to Icuvlo's Inn, so we'll walk along the main road when we return to the village.
Speaking of roads to travel... You were adopted by the Dawnservant, weren't you, Third Promise?
That I was.
Then perhaps you understand. I was an orphan too, you see─Tobli took me in. He took in all the ranch hands, actually.
All of them?
Yes, and everyone works hard at their chores, grateful for the opportunity to repay the head ledger's generosity. Yet here I am, the only one wanting to go off and be a merchant...
I'm sorry, I don't know why I'm telling you this! We need to keep trading things for your saddle if you're to prepare for the Feat of Gold.
As it's mate harvesting season, they can't have too many quality hatchets. Add to that Wuk Lamat's way with people, and we should have no trouble making a favorable deal.
That's Miplu herself over there! Pass the hatchet to the Third Promise, and let's get to bargaining!
Did you give the hatchet back to Wuk Lamat? We should let her do the talking.
