<sigh>
You heard about the storm? I've never seen the likes of it before.
With the supplies and help the Dawnservant sent, we're making progress repairing and rebuilding our homes...
But while rooves and walls can be patched, there is so much else that was lost for good...
<sigh>
<sigh> What are we to do...?
<sigh> What are we to do...?
A lot of houses are still damaged, and the Hanu I've spoken to are not their usual cheery selves. That storm broke more than wood and reeds.
There must be something I can do to help them...
I'm going to look around a bit more.
Some manner of boat?
Some manner of boat?
Some manner of boat?
This boat must be woven from the same reeds I've seen gathered into bundles here and there. The plants hold both practical and cultural significance to the Hanu, then...
Hello, can you all hear me?
I'm told they're ready to receive us now. Come to the large building in the south of the village!
On my way!
We ought to hurry over, too.
No sign of Zoraal Ja or that oversized lout.
How much easier it would be if Zoraal Ja were to fail here. But that isn't likely to happen...
Honored guests! I am Zanuhali, elder of the Hanu.
I am also an elector, charged with judging which among you is worthy of ascending the throne.
Without further ado, let us talk of the feat.
Not so fast! Surely you couldn't begin without us!
Ugh. He made it after all...
No need to fuss─there is no time limit for this challenge. Now, if you would allow me to proceed...
It is here, in Ok'hanu, where my people forged a bond with the Dawnservant during our own chapter of the Tuliyollal Saga.
In homage to those events, I have prepared for you the Feat of Reeds.
Reeds seem to be of great importance to the Hanu. I wonder what this feat entails...
We use reeds in every part of our lives, be it as food or weaving material.
But look around the nearby paddies, and you will see that this season, our crops are failing.
How fortunate, then, that my appointment to elector coincided with this predicament.
For surely, those who aspire to be Dawnservant would find the matter of an ailing harvest a mere trifle to resolve?
Aye, well, it is indeed the duty of a ruler to address the people's woes.
Exactly, exactly! Do well in this, and you will earn my keystone!
Why bother mucking about in the mud...when we can take the stone by force?
Oh, mercy me! You are a hot-headed fellow, Bakool Ja Ja!
Some electors may enjoy going toe-to-toe with scrappers like you, but I refuse to entertain your base instincts.
Arrangements have been made. Should you attempt to engage a feat-giver in combat without their consent, word of your immediate disqualification will be sent to the palace. If you're still feeling feisty, then by all means, draw your weapon.
Hmph, this contest is presided over by cowards. There's no sport in fighting you.
Then we can return to the business of earning my keystone.
The Feat of Reeds is begun! Claimants, I wish you the best of luck!
The clever kitty crossed the seas to study foreign novelties─he might know tricks we don't. Tricks we can use.
What of Little Miss Mittens?
Hah, you know the answer to that! Compared to the First and Second Promise, she's a distant Third. Not even in the running!
Then we see eye to eye on this, Brother. Being Bakool Ja Ja so long with me has rubbed off on you!
These allies of hers, though... They might be a problem.
Dammit, I'm just as qualified to be here as they are. I'll show them!
Easy now. There's no time limit, remember? Let's keep calm and think things through.
Right. You're right. I won't win against that lumbering vidraal by losing my head!
Not that I intend to gratify him with a response, but Bakool Ja Ja's provocations are hard to ignore.
I understand not wanting to fall behind, but rushing ahead risks playing into our opponents' hands. Let's not do anything reckless and think matters through!
This kind of feat is tailor-made for a rational, educated scholar like Koana.
So the Hanuhanu also eat the reeds? Yet another way in which they differ from the Vanu...
I don't know the first thing about farming, but if there's a way to save the harvest and help the Hanu, then we're going to find it!
I'll make Bakool Ja Ja eat his words...
Understanding the nature of the problem will be the key to solving it. We need to examine the reeds themselves, and then deduce the cause of their poor condition.
Erenville, will you take us to the fields where the reeds are grown?
Of course. Follow me.
I know she wants to do her best, but she should be careful not to make promises she cannot keep.
And there I thought these feats would have us battling dire fiends or similar. Agriculture is a far thornier problem...
Look at these fields! Why, this could be a painting!
I see. They irrigate the fields by diverting water from the neighboring river. 'Tis unlikely the reeds ever dry out...
You can all stand back. I'll get to the bottom of this problem in no time!
Give me strength... Let's all of us scour the fields and help our bold leader identify anything unusual.
Oh, a water strider. A bit sluggish, though. More of a water shambler...
Naught amiss with the paddies themselves as far as I can tell...
I'll find the cause of all this! Any moment now!
Any luck?
Hmmm...
Hmmm...
Hmmm...
Hmmm...
Hmmm...
Seen enough? I'll call everyone together, and we can share our discoveries!
Well, what do we think? Any obvious problems?
I agree─the waters look to be of good quality, as does the mud in which the reeds have been planted.
The frogs and insects are unusually torpid. This suggests the problem is affecting not only the reeds, but also the creatures which live among them.
Could something invisible to the naked eye be polluting the water?
We would need an alchemist to know for certain...
I don't have much to add about the fields...but something else occurs to me.
When you were describing how the creatures seemed lifeless...
I couldn't help but be reminded of all the listless villagers.
They've suffered a terrible tragedy, I know...but there is another reason for their flagging spirits, I believe.
Go on...
The festival! This is traditionally an occasion for celebration and renewal, so without it, the Hanu are struggling even more to recover!
The last time I visited, the village was in the middle of the festivities. You'll never see the Hanuhanu more joyful and alive!
It's an indispensable part of their culture, and its absence will only compound their woes. So I say we help them put on their festival─give them a reason to cheer in these sad times! Who knows? Maybe fixing one problem could lead us to a solution for the other!
Right!?
I fail to see the relation between festivals and fields...
Is it so strange an idea...?
I also fail to see the relation between festivals and fields...
Let's not be too hasty in dismissing the idea. Things which seem unrelated can later prove to be connected in surprising ways.
True. And being bereft of ideas as we are, any proposal is worth entertaining.
I... I suppose...
Besides, this is Wuk Lamat's journey. It's only right that we follow her lead.
Thanks, everyone!
By the way, does anyone know where the festival float is? It's like a boat woven from reeds that looks like a bird...
In that big building to the north? Let's go and see it!
There's much less debate when I'm traveling alone...
What a charming float. I wonder what bird was the inspiration for its design...
I've never been here during festival season, so this is all new to me, too.
Look at the size of that thing. I hope they don't expect me to help carry it...
The handles gave me pause before, but now I understand their purpose.
Yes, this is the float I remember!
Hm, does it not appear somewhat damaged to you...? We should take a closer look.
Oh, that's definitely broken. How will they lift this great big vessel without all the carrying poles intact?
Oh dear, one of the bird's eyes seems to be missing a gemstone.
These tail feathers have seen better days. I swear the colors were a lot brighter the last time I saw them.
Well, I think we can all agree this bird-boat is in dire need of repairs.
Now, how do we go about fixing it...?
