I'm givin' ye to the count of nine to step back on that path, and carry yer 'venturin' arse back down to whatever rock it is ye crawled out from under.
Ye see, I's 'ad it up to me ears with yer type, roamin' the 'ills like they was yers to roam. It's gettin' to be that a man cannae enjoy a mug o' rum wivout some shite-breath outlander runnin' up askin' which is the way to the local levemete. Seven 'ells if I know! I'm a bloody pirate, godsdammit!
Thal's balls! Once we 'ave me boy back, I'm puttin' this godsforsaken piss'ole of an island so far behind me, ain't no one'll remember I was ever 'ere. Come on, scrags. We's knives to sharpen.
So the trespassers are indeed pirates, and they are indeed planning something. But what is this talk of getting “me boy back”?
Could it be that their target never was the Victory?
Something is not right, and I won't sit by idly waiting for those pirates to make the first move. I shall order increased patrols immediately. Thank you again for your help, Forename. It appears we were wise to put our trust in you.
I am concerned, Forename. It appears that the pirates I had you investigate are on the move.
They creep ever closer to the Drydocks, so I must assume they mean to target the Victory herself.
That ship is the symbol of everything Limsa Lominsa strives to become, and I will not allow these base scoundrels to lay a single finger upon her hull.
We must apprehend them before they put their plans into motion! And you, Forename, are just the man to do it.
Without your capable assistance, I fear the security of the Drydocks cannot be guaranteed.
Not moments ago, my guards submitted reports of suspicious activity in the area. Pray begin your efforts by listening to one of their accounts firsthand.
It matters not whom you choose to speak with, but be sure to question either Urswyrst at the front gate or C'nangho at the rear.
Any suspect saboteurs you encounter during the course of your investigation are to be interrogated. Report any and all findings directly to me.
