Commander! The imperials─they've broken through our defenses to the east.
What!?
Our scouts say their forces are being led by Lord Zenos!
Lord Hien and Commander Hext have taken their troops to provide support, but we don't know how long they can hold out.
So they've been biding their time, waiting for his arrival, have they?
Very well. Send word to our allies, requesting reinforcements for the front line.
Should the worst come to the worst, I may need to enter the fray myself. But what of you? Do you still have the strength to fight?
Much obliged. Given the choice, I'd take you over a hundred soldiers.
He may not die as such, but to see Lord Zenos fall on the battlefield would deal a heavy blow to imperial morale. I'll see to it the men stay clear.
Why won't they open?
Please... I bid you, open...!
What's wrong? Is it the voice again?
Are you sure you're in a fit state to do this?
May Rhalgr grant us strength...
Give them hell, lass. I, for my part, will defend this place to my dying breath.
Give them hell, lass. I, for my part, will defend this place to my dying breath.
So, there are still those willing to stand against the crown prince. Interesting...
So, there are still those willing to stand against the crown prince. Interesting...
Let's put an end to this here and now!
Do you truly believe that possible? Then let us test the limits of this Garlean vessel.
A formidable foe... But we have come too far to fail now.
Soon I shall give the lie to man's indomitable spirit.
Soon I shall give the lie to man's indomitable spirit.
Strength, my friends! It would not do to have Forename arrive to find us battered and broken!
Fight and struggle if that is your wont, but you will not escape your fate.
Our fate is not for you to decide!
Enough! You will learn your place.
Behold─a taste of my true power!
Grrr... Ngh... What is this sorcery!?
Look upon Ame-no-Habakiri and know the depths of your folly!
Oh no you don't!
Lyse, no... What have you done!?
If he would bring all to bear then so must we!
Well done dispelling his phantoms. Now hurry, we must protect Lyse!
Still you choose to struggle against the inevitable...
Still you choose to struggle against the inevitable...
We may be on the back foot, but it's not over yet!
If we can at least hold out until Forename arrives, I'm sure we can turn this around.
She comes, does she? Then I need not waste my time on you.
Fall, fiend!
Yugiri!
Damn you!
Magic? With a Garlean body? That's hardly fair...
Still, he must be stopped...no matter the cost...
Ah, Bringer of Light. It has been too long.
No words to mark our reunion? ...So be it.
Equilibrium must be restored... And only your death will redress the balance.
We will suffer your interference no longer.
You think you know of the dark, but I will show you the true nature of our power!
The potential of this vessel is transcendent─without limit!
You are strong, Bringer of Light, but Her blessing will avail you not.
To redress the balance─to ensure the salvation of this star─you must fall!
Impossible... How is it you have grown so powerful in the gift!?
No matter... You may have bested Lahabrea, but I will not be cast aside so easily!
I see...
Your Mother chose Her champion well.
Yet for all your strength, you will still fail.
Please... I beseech you...
Hm? Someone calls to you...
Too late, alas.
At last, I've found you.
Please! There is no cause for alarm!
...Though, I confess, this is not where I had intended to meet.
But the place of our meeting is of no consequence─like the war you wage. Win or lose, the path you walk leads only to oblivion.
The better path leads you here. To me. I have need of your strength.
I am afraid such questions will have to wait. We have precious little time, and your work is not yet done.
The battle is over. The danger passed. But your work is not yet done.
Go to the Crystal Tower. I have left something for you near its base.
It will serve as a beacon of sorts. One which I pray will help you on your journey.
All you need do is find it. I will take care of the rest.
Soon we will throw wide the gates...
And the path to the First will be yours to walk at last.
You're awake. Thank heavens!
Do you recall the confrontation with Zenos? You were the first to come to the aid of Mistress Lyse and the others on the front line.
I see you recall that much, at least.
In the midst of your duel, it is said you faltered, and that the crown prince seized the opportunity to deliver a mortal blow.
Yet before his blade could find its mark, he was distracted by the arrival of a second adversary who bore you away from the battlefield and into the hands of our chirurgeons.
Lest you wonder, he left before you awoke. As is his wont.
Estinien never was one for emotional farewells.
Though Zenos bested all before him, the battle clearly took its toll, for he retreated shortly after your rescue. Seeing this, the remaining imperial forces decided discretion was the better part of valor and pulled back, allowing us to reestablish our position.
We have since received word of renewed unrest in the provinces, doubtless inspired by the efforts of the Eorzean Alliance and our Far Eastern allies.
Nor does the good news end there. We have also come into possession of intelligence suggesting unrest within the imperial court.
This would certainly explain why both the Emperor and Lord Zenos appear to have abandoned the fight.
A long-awaited ray of hope in these dark times.
Yet to awake, I'm afraid. But, please...concentrate on your own recovery for now.
You have carried the hopes of some half-dozen nations─and we are all eternally grateful for your efforts─but no one is without their limits. Not even you.
Leave this fight to us, my friend. You have earned your rest.
Ah, but before I forget...
I was asked to deliver a message as soon as you awoke.
A reminder that you are not alone, though many of your allies have fallen.
When you are well and rested, you are to return home, where friends will be waiting for you.
Now, if you will excuse me, I must return to the front. May we meet again soon. Under happier circumstances.
Well, this is a most unexpected surprise. I thought you confined to bed.
When I heard that you had collapsed on the field of battle, I confess I feared the worst. But with you standing here before me, I see now that the reports of your defeat were greatly exaggerated. Thank the Fury.
As long as we have you, Mistress Surname, history suggests we have a fighting chance. Speaking of fighting, you may be surprised to hear that the war's effects can already be felt even here in Ishgard. In anticipation of a need for reinforcements, Artoirel will soon be departing for the front lines with a contingent of our finest knights.
I would advise you to stay until your strength had returned, but I know it would be an exercise in futility.
Indeed, I suspect you have already decided on your next destination.
Dark days lie ahead, of that I have no doubt, but the light of hope shall ever guide our steps so long as we have the will to press onward.
And press onward we must. Farewell, my friend. I pray our next meeting will be under happier circumstances.
By the Twelve, I don't believe it!
I rushed back as soon as I could.
I swear, my heart nearly stopped when I heard you'd collapsed like the others. What in heavens' name is going on?
“Win or lose, the path you walk leads only to oblivion.” ...Well, that's helpful.
And what else did he say? The better path leads to him? Hmm...
If his is the voice you've all been hearing, perhaps the others are with him.
Ser Aymeric said the fighting had reached a stalemate, didn't he.
But if that monster masquerading as Zenos comes back...
Thancred, Y'shtola, Urianger, Alphinaud, Alisaie... You're going to need all of them on your side to defeat him.
And I forbid you from going to face him on your own. Do you hear me?
So if you must leave... Go and find the others. Bring them home.
As for where to start, you said the stranger had left a beacon for you at the Crystal Tower, right?
But how are you to find it now that the tower has been sealed shut?
There has to be a way... If anyone would know, it's Cid and the researchers of Saint Coinach's Find.
Don't you worry. We'll find that beacon for you.
Don't you worry. We'll find that beacon for you.
...I pray you have good reason for abandoning the front.
How could I remain there while the rumor that my son is possessed by a demon spreads like a sickness here at home?
I will not be made to fight for the throne a second time.
But what of you? Did you not tell me you would destroy Eorzea's champion with the ease that one might swat a fly?
A minor setback. She will not escape me again.
Where is your grandsire? I would have words with him.
How should I know? Do you hide from each other's sight as well? I imagine he is doing what all Ascians do.
Hmmm... He must have found a way to take advantage of this turmoil.
Men are not pawns to be played with, Ascian. You underestimate us at your peril.
This war will not be decided by you and yours. Man must choose his own fate, and I, for my part, will do all within my power to see Garlemald emerge victorious.
Pray forgive the intrusion, Your Radiance, but the requested preparations are now complete.
We stand ready to begin production of Black Rose, upon your order.
I knew you'd be all right. And to celebrate your return, I made you this─a brand-new traveling outfit! Oh, I do hope it fits...
<ahem> But now is not the time to fuss over your measurements. I must go and speak with the researchers of Saint Coinach's Find. You go and rest while we track down that beacon.
My enemy. My friend. Had I been but a step faster...
Bloody savages!
A pity your hunt leads you elsewhere... Not that I am surprised.
May you find joy in it. Grow stronger, more savage, and savor every triumph...
In the meantime...I will reclaim that which is rightfully mine.
In the meantime...I will reclaim that which is rightfully mine.
In the meantime...I will reclaim that which is rightfully mine.
Good news, Forename! We've had a stroke of luck in our search for that beacon!
Apparently, our colleagues have stumbled across a hidden path leading down into the hollows around the base of the Crystal Tower.
...A path I doubt we'd ever have found had the Ironworks and the Sons not added their numbers to the party.
Thanks to them, we have eager eyes aplenty down there, checking under rocks and peering into every nook and cranny. Still, it sounds like there's a lot of ground to cover...
My thoughts exactly!
The sooner we find this beacon, the sooner you can travel to wherever it is this mysterious voice is coming from.
Exactly! So I was thinking we should go and lend a hand. The sooner we find this beacon, the sooner you can travel to wherever it is this mysterious voice is coming from.
And the sooner we can work out how to help our friends.
We have to find a way to wake them up─and before the Empire comes calling again! Meaning we have no time to lose!
There's a boat in north Silvertear waiting to ferry people to the site, so let's be on our way!
