Thank you, my lady. You are most kind.
...Well, well. Two faces from the dim and distant past.
Come now, it hasn't been that long. Who was that you were speaking with?
A local miner who supplies crystals for the rebuilding effort. Of late, he claims to have struggled to find a crystal with so much as a trace of elemental energy.
Upon learning that I had some knowledge of aether, he came seeking my counsel. Just now he brought me one of his recent finds.
It was precisely as he described─devoid of elemental energy...and eerily reminiscent of the deaspected crystals that manifested in Eorzea in the days prior to the Calamity. We would be wise to investigate this phenomenon more closely.
Indeed... But on a more positive note, the locals seem to have taken a liking to you.
More an interest in than a liking to, I think. The sight of a Miqo'te with a peculiar contraption upon her head has a certain novelty value in these parts. Any actual regard they may have for me, I owe wholly to you and the others who came before. Everyone here has been exceedingly cooperative, and I am pleased to report that I have all but concluded my investigation.
Simply put, by focusing one's will upon an aether-infused object of worship, it is possible to conduct a summoning.
...So, the fact that they are objects of worship is the key? They are themselves suffused with the requisite belief?
Correct. Such sacred relics as the Kojin collect obviate the need for religious fervor in the summoner─Yotsuyu being the most obvious example. She had but to associate the artifact given to her by Asahi with the divine, and it served to amplify her desires and give them form.
A form nourished through the power of crystals, also provided by her brother. And thus was Tsukuyomi brought into being.
Which brings me to the question of preventative measures─to which I have yet to find a satisfactory answer. At present, I know of naught that will avail us, save to keep watch over the movement of relics and crystals. As if we did not have enough to keep watch over already...
...But I doubt you came all this way to hear that which may be perused in a report. Has something happened to Alphinaud?
...Hm. I shall join you in the search, of course.
Thank you, Y'shtola. I should be glad of your help. Truly.
Now, if there's nothing else, I shall go on ahead and request an audience with Lord Hien.
Alisaie puts on a brave face, but she has little talent for concealment. We should join her at the Kienkan.
Lord Hien is expecting you. May I show you in?
Greetings, my friend. Alisaie has explained all to me.
Needless to say, you shall have our full cooperation in the search. Even if Alphinaud's trail does lead to the Burn, of all places...
The region known as the Burn occupies a special place in Garlean history. Every child in the Empire is familiar with the tale.
In the distant past, it was a verdant land teeming with life, but successive summonings saw it bled dry of aether and reduced to a desert. It was upon beholding the devastation that primals had wrought that Emperor Solus was spurred to embark upon his crusade against their kind.
The Burn offers a glimpse of the future we seek to prevent. Know you of any reason why Alphinaud might have gone there?
Aye. Mischance. Though it lies on the route to Garlemald, it is no place to make a stop. My guess is they encountered some manner of trouble there.
In any event, I am of the same mind as Alisaie─we have no choice but to take our search to the Burn. Given the considerable distances involved, 'tis best we went by bird.
Forename and I have our yols. Yugiri, will you ready falcons for the others?
I shall gather our swiftest birds.
Near the House of the Fierce, there is an overlook. Pray join us there once you have seen to your preparations.
If everyone is here and possessed of a bird, let us away.
Remember, our destination is a barren wasteland. There is no civilization to speak of for a hundred malms in all directions. Take care you do not lose your way.
Make ready, friends. We are come to the Burn.
Everyone! Land where you can! We must wait out the storm!
That was quite a sandstorm...
Falling rocks!
Watch your heads, everyone!
I daresay we're in that creature's home.
A scorpion clad in crystal. How curious.
Amazing that life could adapt to such a harsh environment.
One cannot underestimate the will to survive.
Is this Allagan...?
Aye. The aether here is unmistakable.
It seems we've trespassed upon their lair.
Never a dull moment in this cavern!
Both machina and facility are still operational.
Not for much longer, they won't be!
