Chosen one. One of your rivals is making progress...
Ihih'hana, you say...
Should our first choice fail to deliver, it might be wise to let this play out...
The Third-rate Promise is making herself useful after all.
A rather eccentric fellow, but I feel his heart is in the right place!
Cave Kikitola is southwest of Ok'hanu. We can return to the village first, then head there on foot.
I almost envy how effortlessly he can shift from one mood to its polar opposite. At least I presume he does so by choice...
Southwest of here, was it? Let us be on our way.
Look, you can see the falls at the back of the cave! These hollows must have been carved out by the constant deluge of water from above...
Cave Kikitola, as promised. Home to many deadly creatures. Venture inside if you feel confident, but I will conduct my own search out here.
You can spot raw abokixa by its green-hued glimmer. Bring anything matching that description to me.
I shall help scour the inside of the cave, then. You take the west half and I'll take the east!
I am reluctant to send you into danger for the sake of the float, but if you are willing...
I am reluctant to send you into danger for the sake of the float, but if you are willing...
I am reluctant to send you into danger for the sake of the float, but if you are willing...
I am reluctant to send you into danger for the sake of the float, but if you are willing...
I am reluctant to send you into danger for the sake of the float, but if you are willing...
I am reluctant to send you into danger for the sake of the float, but if you are willing...
Some of the cave's inhabitants took umbrage at my presence, but it was nothing a few swishes of my brush couldn't handle.
I picked over the ground near the entrance but found nothing. Did you have better luck inside the cave?
Yes, this is abokixa. Along with Krile's contribution, we have more than enough for our needs.
The stones you've brought shine very brightly. I thank you both.
...He would have been happy to know we were putting things right.
Truth be told, a good friend of mine was meant to be festival leader for this year's Ihih'hana.
But when that big storm hit, he...he did not survive. It fell to me to carry on in his stead.
That was why you agreed to Wuk Lamat's request, despite your initial reluctance.
Yes. It hurt to hear, but she was right. Though I must mourn, I cannot let my grief consume me.
Her words made me realize that the path to my recovery─our recovery─is already laid out before me. And I will walk it. For myself, and for my friend.
Thank you for sharing your story with us. Please, rest assured that we've taken your plight to heart.
I'm certain our companions are procuring the other materials as we speak.
Everything will come together, and the Hanu shall host a splendid, uplifting festival!
That we shall!
With that, let us return and deliver the abokixa into Wuk Evu's waiting hands.
We've come too far to stop now. The Lifting of Wings must go on!
I hope Wuk Lamat's foray was as productive as ours.
We just got back ourselves. Did you find the stone we needed?
Thanks to the Third Promise and her mighty swings, we've collected some suitable logs of uyuipo. What of the abokixa?
Yes, these are excellent samples. A goodly quantity, too.
At this stage, you've likely surmised that the Lifting of Wings encourages the crops to grow─but not exactly how, eh?
Well, you're in for a treat. If all goes to plan, the results should be spectacular.
Now, to get to work crafting these pieces for the float. I could use an assistant versed in the arcane arts to enhance the uyuipo's conductivity...
Then I'd be delighted to help.
Everyone else should head back to Ok'hanu. We'll join you at the float once the work here is complete.
The final touches are fairly routine and shouldn't take long. Go ahead and wait by the float.
I'm excited to see how Ihih'hana turns out!
As Wuk Evu said, the festival really is a spectacle to behold.
Gathering the uyuipo was a trial in and of itself.
At first, Wuk Evu criticized everything I did. Then he suddenly yelled “I've spoken ill of the Third Promise and must punish myself!” and proceeded to slam his head into an uyuipo tree...
I told him not to worry about it─again─and it was like snuffing out a candle. He's an odd one, that's for sure!
At least we've seen to the poles and the new eye. Now we just have to wait for the feathers from the twins!
We should get some rest before the excitement begins...
