Out in the fields in restraints. Frenzied as they were, I couldn't well return them to Ktisis.
Once I've submitted my report, I'll see them reverted without delay.
It's as he says. The beasts are indeed quite ferocious.
Y-You're one of the Fourteen! Wh-What brings you here!?
Nothing you need concern yourself with. As you were.
We've heard the news─that a lykaon slaughtered okyupetes. As the observer in charge, you are of the opinion that they are not fit to be released?
Aye, I am. Their abnormal aggression and exceptional strength makes for a highly problematic combination.
It matters not where they are released. Lykaones would threaten other species and upset the natural order.
Could it be that the specimens observed are an outlier?
Highly unlikely. We've created a good many of them; all exhibited the same tendencies.
Even when we used Kairos to begin with a fresh slate, their behavior was unchanged.
Kairos...?
A memory reconfiguration system. The chief himself created it.
It allows us to erase or alter memories, that we may observe creations in different environmental conditions without needing to remake them from scratch.
Quite impressive...and potentially dangerous. Depending on the intensity of the aetheric emissions, Pashtarot may wish to have words with you.
Rest assured I've kept all values within prescribed limits. And to prevent misuse, its applications are limited to those authorized by the chief overseer.
Do not misunderstand. To manipulate a subject's memories is an intrusive act I deeply abhor. But it is still preferable to execution.
Come now, Chief, let's not be so melodramatic! What was born of aether is simply being reduced to its original state.
I know the distinctions concern you, but we mustn't lose sight of the bigger picture─making rational choices for the sake of a more prosperous star.
If a creation cannot be properly studied even with the aid of Kairos, we remake it. If a creation is deemed a detrimental existence, we unmake it. 'Tis all for the greater good, and none question the necessity of such routine processes.
I understand these things, I do. I would never think to unleash a clear and undeniable threat unto the world.
Yet insignificant though their individual lives may be next to all creation, it is all the lykaones have.
Before we seal their fates, we owe it to these beings to exhaust all options. To ensure that nothing has been overlooked.
If you insist. Let me provide you with a full report, and we may take it from there.
Would it be possible for us to attend the discussion? That Emet-Selch may better carry out his duties.
By all means.
Pray show them to the meeting room.
We have a duty to the star, this I know. But it doesn't mean we don't also have a responsibility to the lives we bring into existence here.
To man, other beings are just things. To be used and controlled. Like magic.
That's what Hermes told me once...
...
I fear this discussion may take a while, during which time...
Meteion? Are you feeling unwell?
It's not me, Hermes. It's you...
I won't go to the meeting. I'll stay with Forename.
Loath though I am to impose, may I leave Meteion in your care again?
I'm in your debt. If you'll excuse me...
Can you help me with something, Forename?
The meeting will make Hermes sad. I want to cheer him up. With a flower.
Hermes likes flowers the most. Of all the creations in Elpis.
Most creations are expected to be interesting. Or beautiful. Or strong. Better in some way.
But flowers are different. They're designed to suit our emotions. What we feel and want to convey. Hermes likes that.
I can't make flowers. So I'll search for one. And I want you to search with me.
Let's start here. At the Twelve Wonders.
Let's search the Twelve Wonders first.
All right! I'll wait at the building.
Hermes is still talking. We still have time!
Hermes is still talking. We still have time!
Oooh, so big and bright! I love them!
...But they might be too bright. You have to think of the recipient. That's what Hermes said.
...But they might be too bright. You have to think of the recipient. That's what Hermes said.
No flowers... If there were apples, we could've covered them in syrup...
Let's head outside next. Don't worry─we won't wander far.
Lots of flowers in the fields. We should be able to find something nice!
Lots of flowers in the fields. We should be able to find something nice!
These would be better for Hermes...but they're hedged in.
That means we shouldn't touch them. They're either under observation or poisonous.
Any other place should be fine, though. Let's keep looking!
Vibrant or subdued...? Interesting or plain...? Hmmm...
Vibrant or subdued...? Interesting or plain...? Hmmm...
Oh, a coneion! A flower that can move!
When Hermes wasn't looking, it shot seeds at him. Not a good gift, maybe...
But you're good, Forename─at spotting flowers! We'll find something soon!
You're good at observing, Forename. Just like an observer!
You're good at observing, Forename. Just like an observer!
Hmmm, nothing around here... Ah!
Over there, Forename! Something big! Huge!
Come on, let's get closer! But not too close!
Come on, let's get closer! But not too close!
It's an adonis! The things around its mouth look like petals. But the flowers are the orbs on its head!
When Hermes inspected it, it swallowed him up. He didn't leave his room for days. What do you think, Forename? Would he like it?
So not this one either...
Finding a good flower... It's harder than I thought.
I'm sorry, Forename, but could we search a little more? Maybe as far as the fields over there. I'll pick something after that, I promise.
I've never given a gift before... Were you nervous too? For your first time?
I've never given a gift before... Were you nervous too? For your first time?
Awww... There's nothing...
...Hm? The shiny thing over there. What could it be?
I learned something new recently─the meaning of Philomythes Notos!
“Notos” is a south wind person...and “Philomythes” is his joy! Why is he joyful? Because this place is so beautiful!
Ooh, Elpis flowers! They're here too!
Hermes likes and dislikes them. At the same time.
Like me, they're entelechies. Like me, they feel his pain and turn dark...
That's only for Hermes, though. For others, they're always white and bright.
Truly!? The flower was dark in your home!?
Then...do you have it too? A dark emotion?
I see...
Hermes has known the same. The feeling that a part of you is gone. Again and again. But no one notices...
Please, Forename. Won't you lend them to me? Your pain and sorrow...
I see...
Hermes has felt the same. A fire burning in your breast. A trembling hand. But no one understands...
Please, Forename. Won't you lend them to me? Your fury and frustration...
I see...
Hermes has felt the same. A shortness of breath. The walls closer and closer. But only him. No one else feels it...
Please, Forename. Won't you lend them to me? Your doubt and anxiety...
You don't have to say it. I can feel it's something you want to hide.
But won't you lend it to me? The darkness inside you?
I want you to make the flower dark. In front of Hermes.
He has been in a dark place. Since before he created me. He needs to know that he isn't there alone. That others are sad too.
Truly? You'll do it?
Thank you, Forename! Thank you! It means more to me than I can say!
I can't wait to see how Hermes reacts! Let's go back and fetch him!
It seems they're still talking. Let's wait until they've finished.
Hermes!
Oh... You were waiting for me.
You've finished talking?
Yes. We've come to a decision.
My thanks for keeping Meteion company.
Emet-Selch and Hythlodaeus have already retired to their rooms.
There is a room for you too, if you would follow me.
Wait! I want to show you something first.
Elpis flowers...?
Go on!
You're not the only one, Hermes. Others feel sad too. You're not alone.
I see Meteion has shared much with you.
May we talk a moment?
I do not think it wrong that we live for the star. That we strive to make it a better place.
And yet, in carrying out my duties here, there are times when I am plagued by doubt.
Do you recall what Hythlodaeus said, when we first spoke of my nomination?
Death is the privilege of those who have fulfilled their purpose. A choice they embrace of their own free will. And when they depart, it is always beautiful.
Perhaps it is...but only for man.
Creations that he deems useless are discarded with nary a second thought.
Some scarcely born into the world. Afforded a handful of breaths before life and potential are abruptly extinguished.
We make an effort to spare them the pain. But they sense what awaits. Rage in anguish and cower in fear...and it is not beautiful.
Yet no one cares. No one.
So fixated are we upon the duty that we do not pause to question the method.
Pain and suffering... Confusion and despair... Writ plain in the eyes of those poor creatures.
Yet no one sees. We turn a blind eye and carry on in blissful ignorance. Naught amiss, and always─always the blossoms shine pure and white.
A contradiction so blatant I could scream. Want to scream. How can you all accept this...aberration!?
Then I wonder...am I the aberration for thinking thus? And I am filled with dread...
But now I know I'm not alone. Not the only one for whom the flowers weep.
I won't ask what you thought as you kneeled beside the Elpis. Or if you only did it at Meteion's insistence.
Nevertheless...I thank you.
To know that you too have experienced suffering...is a comfort.
To so willingly lend an ear to ease my burden... You are a strange one.
...Indeed. Difficult though it may be, I must endeavor to be strong like you.
Lest you misunderstand, I derive no pleasure from your pain.
It's just...the fact that you are still here, in spite of your suffering, gives me heart.
The stars in the heavens... Know you what they are?
Though it is too far to tell, each glittering light could be a world not unlike Etheirys. A world filled with life.
So many stars, so many lives... For us, there may be no higher purpose than to live for our world, but what of the other living beings out there?
What is it that gives their lives meaning? That drives them day after day after day?
To pose that question to our undiscovered cousins, I created beings of dynamis, who can traverse the vast emptiness between the stars. Meteion and her sisters.
Aye, sisters.
She has a great many of them, and they have already departed on their journey. Traveling to one star, and then the next, in search of life.
As one might expect, exploration on such a grand scale is rife with difficulties, and thus far I've naught to show for it.
But I have faith that we will make some manner of discovery ere long.
And when we do, I should be glad to share our findings with you, in gratitude for your kindness.
...It's getting rather late. We had best find our beds. 'Twould not do for both of us to be sleep-deprived on the morrow.
Come, Meteion! Let us head back.
All right!
I'm glad Hermes saw the flowers. Thank you, Forename.
It will help...I hope. Today will be difficult for him.
The prodigal familiar returns, and after causing all manner of trouble while we were in our meeting, I'm sure.
Were you able to get some rest? Please, do not hesitate to let us know if you're feeling tired─I worry we might exhaust your scarce reserves of aether.
An all-too-brief interlude, perhaps, but it is time I attend to my next task.
As Emet-Selch and Hythlodaeus are aware, we reached a verdict regarding the fate of the lykaones.
Seven were created for observation...
...And all seven must be unmade.
Doros has followed the correct protocols, and, as chief overseer, I can find no fault in his judgment.
The lykaones would disrupt the natural order, ravaging and consuming other species until they themselves starve and perish. They cannot be released into the wild, and they cannot be allowed to remain here in Elpis.
I intend to petition the Bureau of the Architect to have the concept preserved as a restricted-purpose hazardous life-form. Hythlodaeus has pledged to support me in this endeavor.
Yet whatever the bureau decides, the existing lykaones have served their purpose...
Doros has already isolated the creatures, and is preparing to carry out the necessary measures.
I will join him forthwith. It is my duty to witness the...conclusion...to this study.
If you are resolved, then we have but to accompany you.
Of course. Let us be off, then. We return to the main isle.
Doros! Are you hurt!? What happened here!?
They...they caught me off guard...
I had them bound with aetherial shackles. But they became frenzied, even more so than usual, and broke free...
I was able to stop four. The other three escaped...
...I see them. Two have taken to the air above the Twelve Wonders.
The last is up ahead, lurking in the fields.
You and Forename handle that one. The pair in the sky, you can leave to me.
...If this is how it must end, then so be it.
I will render assistance to Emet-Selch, unneeded though it is.
Meteion, you are to stay here with Doros.
But, Hermes!
The lykaones must be reverted. I would spare you their pain. And mine.
This is my burden, not yours. But if you are intent on helping, then please, follow my lead.
Never mind my wounds, they are easily healed. It is the lykaones which concern me...
Stay with Hermes, Forename. He will need someone...when the time comes...
I appreciate your help...and lament that it is necessary.
There it is─our quarry. Within striking distance at present...but if it feels threatened, it may well flee beyond our reach.
Here is my plan. You will approach slowly, in full view, and draw the lykaon's attention.
Now, I warn you: its abilities are as fiery as its temperament. Once it spots you, it will unleash orbs of flame...
But fear not. By my measure, you are more than equal to the task. Withstand the onslaught for a few brief moments, and that will give me time to catch it unawares.
...Ready? Then let us begin!
A few moments is all I require. Just make sure that you command its attention!
Not quite yet! Stand your ground a little longer!
Now!
Forgive me... Please forgive me...
May you and your kin find peace...
Wherever your souls may drift in the Underworld, may you find tranquil seas.
Be not forgotten. In concept endure to reclaim form and one day live again.
Serve not the star or any purpose save your own. Live again, if that be your desire.
Hate, if that be your wont. We are worthy. But leave your suffering behind.
Lay down your burdens. Be born anew. Fly high. Fly free.
Join the Convocation, Hermes.
You do not belong here.
Leave to replace another─to be replaced? It changes nothing!
Tell me! Do you think it right that we sacrifice all these lives for the sake of the star?
And when the star has reached perfection─what then? If all who are satisfied choose to die, shall we all die in satisfaction!?
...I do not know.
Were I to take up the seat of Fandaniel, it would be tantamount to approving my predecessor's death.
I do not know if it is right.
And to be torn by such thoughts...I do not know if I am fit to represent mankind.
Hermes!
Please don't be angry... It hurts so...
Forgive me.
If you would still consider me in spite of everything, I beg some time to gather my thoughts.
Meanwhile, Hythlodaeus, I fear I must trouble you to attend to the others.
'Tis no trouble at all. Take as long as you require.
And you, my friend. I pray you find that which you seek.
I expect we have some few matters to discuss. Shall we return to the Twelve Wonders for a time?
Aye...
It has been quite an exciting visit for you thus far. Oh, you weren't injured, were you? Good, good.
The other lykaones have been taken care of.
The incident is resolved, and life in Elpis continues as normal...or ends, as the case may be.
Rationally speaking, I understand Hermes's argument. No matter how well deserved the rest, there is a pang of sadness when a colleague leaves us.
Yet never has a departure caused me such grief as Hermes appears to feel. What must it be like to experience such torment...?
...I don't know what answer he's searching for, or if it is within our power to give it. But I believe he would make a fine Fandaniel, and that if he rejects us out of hand, we will all be lesser for it.
Where to now? If there is anywhere you would like to visit before we leave, I should be glad to show you the way...
Hermes has not yet outright refused his position with the Convocation─merely postponed the decision.
As such, I may as well resume my assessment. If we cannot accompany him, then I will content myself with questioning his colleagues.
Ever the pragmatist. Then allow me to remain your humble guide.
And what of you, Forename? Will you continue along with us?
Wonderful! Our fellowship travels on unbroken. I say we explore another part of Elpis, and see what new encounters there are to be had.
If you would follow me, we will first head back towards Anagnorisis.
Didn't we part ways with Hermes not far from here? Given the size of Elpis, I expect our paths will cross again before long...
From here, we follow the path northwards to Notoneus.
There we will find one of the neus which facilitate travel between the islands of Elpis.
First-time travelers must be accompanied by someone with the requisite permission─which I have previously been granted. We only need use the device together once, and henceforth you will have leave to use it freely.
Shall we?
Unless the need is pressing, I won't be tracking Hermes with my aetherial sight. 'Tis poor manners to spy on someone's comings and goings in such a fashion. So don't ask.
Social conventions notwithstanding, perceiving aether requires deliberate and intense concentration, and we otherwise keep our eyes on the corporeal world.
Here we are: Notoneus. This neus will take us to Kallimelios Zephyros, the western island.
That's it right there, looming large over us.
Step this way, and we can soon admire the view from above!
Here we are: Notoneus. This neus will take us to Kallimelios Zephyros, the western island.
That's it right there, looming large over us.
Step this way, and we can soon admire the view from above!
I present to you Kallimelios Zephyros.
Here you will find a number of testing facilities as well as the observation hub of Poieten Oikos.
Right, then. Let's begin by─ ...Hm?
Well, well, an oreias. How delightful.
And what, pray tell, is that...?
Ah, that's a new species of shark. We approved the concept but a few days ago.
Sharks are among the most popular sea creatures. Rare is the day when someone does not submit a new concept.
At first they were largely orthodox, consideration given to such things as size and environmental impact, and then a whimsical someone thought to bestow it with flight, another superior intelligence, and then the floodgates burst.
Concepts with multiple heads, or arms, or legs, or arms and legs, and so on and so forth.
It was getting absurd. Part of me wanted to tell them to go away and find something else to create, but in the end, I couldn't deny their passion.
And, here we are!
