Oh, oh, of course! Have no doubt that we shall! My husband and I want only the best imperial education for our boy!
I've finished planting the rice, Mother...
Not while the officer is here, Yotsuyu! Inside! Now!
Yes, Mother.
You did not mention that you had a daughter.
My sister's, not mine─kami rest her soul. <sigh> She is utterly hopeless, but one cannot choose one's family.
Indeed... She is of age to receive an education as well, is she not? Yet we have no records. I trust I need not remind you of your legal obligations─
No, no! Of course not! But she is weak and sickly. Some days, she has not the strength to leave her bed! Though...a thought occurs to me. Mayhap we can come to an understanding...
That was a near thing.
What happened? We were talking, and then all of a sudden you were somewhere else. Did one of those soldiers hit you on the head or something?
Well, if you say so... We should go and tell the others what happened here.
Thank you. You didn't have to come with me, but you did, and for that I am grateful.
I told the others of our encounter with the disguised soldiers. Though we disposed of the bodies, it is only a matter of time before their comrades note their absence.
As if we needed any more reason to act quickly...Are you sure you're all right, by the way? You've been awfully quiet since we returned...
I'd tell you to rest and leave the rest to the others, but seeing as that isn't in your nature...
Lyse returned but a moment ago, looking a bit worried. It would seem that trouble is afoot in Namai.
You may as well go and ask her about it. As for me, I will not impose upon you any further.
We've barely got enough armor as it is, huh...
Oh, you're here to help? That's a relief. I've been trying to help the villagers in Namai get ready for the operation, but we've run into a few problems...
You remember how we're supposed to stir up trouble as a diversion, right? Well, the thing is, we don't have enough armor to go around.
I thought the Doman Liberation Front would be able to furnish us with some, but it seems that's not the case. I was about to go and tell Isse─why don't you come too?
Oh, you're here too. I heard about those soldiers you and Alisaie encountered. I'm glad you're all right... Ahem. Right, then...
Isse─we have gathered up all the rope we could find in the village.
And every tool with an edge, but it is still not enough. Even a hoe would suffice, but there are no more to spare.
Thank you, Chigusa. Ryosen could use a hand, if there is nothing else.
As for more tools...I may have some in my home. Go and search it─take whatever meets your needs.
I made enough rice balls for everyone─including some special ones for Lady Yugiri. Can I go and give them to her?
Y-You silly little girl, of course you can! Hurry! You never know when she'll have to leave on a secret mission!
Sorry about that. Everyone's been trying to contribute since Lord Hien returned. There's so much to worry about.
You're doing well, Isse...though I have to ask: have you had any luck finding more armor?
Unfortunately, no. Unlike weapons, there are no substitutes for proper protection...
It's not as though we need full suits of imperial plate, but we're not soldiers. If we attack without any equipment, we'll be slaughtered.
The Doman Liberation Front doesn't have any armor to spare. I suppose we could ask Hancock, but there's no telling how long it would take for him to send us supplies...
Do you have an armorer in the village, or anyone with some skill to fashion armor?
There is one man. A craftsman who fled the enclave. He is experienced, and may be able to help.
I don't know if I can persuade him to, though. But maybe you two could come with me?
His name is Tsuranuki, and he lives in Kusakari, in the south. Come with me.
