I have been expecting you. Time is of the essence, so I shall be direct.
Yuyuhase and his men are bound for Halatali.
We believe that this is where they intend to carry out the execution.
Hozan is presently keeping watch over the entrance. Let us make haste and join him.
You come at a good time, my friends. But moments ago, the traitor Ilberd arrived and entered Halatali.
From this, we may be certain that General Raubahn is being held within.
There is no time to lose─General Aldynn may be executed at any moment. You must enter Halatali and free him from his captors.
Please see to your preparations, and tell me when you are ready to proceed. One of our own will accompany you inside.
Pray forgive me my lateness.
Lady Yugiri!
Master Alphinaud. I am pleased to see that the light of resolve shines in your eyes once more.
Ah, yes... How pathetic I must have seemed to you when we last met. I am ashamed to recall it. For a time I was well and truly lost. But with the aid of my comrades, I have since refound my purpose, and I shall take care not to misplace it again.
Since your escape from Ul'dah, my fellow shinobi and I have shadowed the Crystal Braves' every step in hopes of learning the Scions' whereabouts.
Regrettably, our investigation has yet to yield any useful information. Pray forgive us.
You need not apologize, my lady─we are grateful for all that you have done on our behalf. Besides, Raubahn is no less a friend, and we cannot well abandon him to his fate.
Hozan─the three of us shall attend to the Flame General's rescue. Pray draw away the guards by the entrance. Take Doware and Higiri with you.
With me!
Not a soul from the Coliseum to be seen. This bodes ill.
Take the lead, Forename. I shall follow close upon you.
The General...but where are his captors? I mislike the look of this.
General!
You...came...
He is bound by some manner of magitek device. Yet I dare not force it open─it may well be booby-trapped.
I have heard of such devices. The Crystal Braves will possess the key. Let us split up and look for it.
That will not be necessary.
Pray do not take it personally, my friends. You are the victims of harsh economic conditions.
Happily, you will not suffer for long. This poison will convey you swiftly unto the bosom of Thal, where I hope to join you, after the passing of many prosperous years.
Farewell, friends. Oh, and do try to relax. They tell me struggling only makes it worse.
Confound it! The mist stifles my healing!
<cough> Leave me... <splutter> Save yourselves...
We cannot let them escape! Forename, force the gate!
...Beasts!? The mist must be drawing them!
Hah! The way is clear!
The mist remains... We must stop it at the source!
I shall tend to the General! Pray see to the mist and the key!
The Braves...have the key...
That takes care of the mist!
The mist has cleared!
Next, to find the key and free Raubahn!
