Twelve be praised, it is you!
We're ready and willin' to work, same as the Domans! Just give us a task, and we'll see it done!
Pray calm yourselves! I appreciate your enthusiasm, but I know naught of your situation.
Beg your pardon, Antecedent. I...I ain't so good with words.
We've been livin' off the scraps of Ul'dah for years now. Tryin' to piece together a life to replace the one what got took.
They say there's work, but there's naught for an honest man. Naught as wouldn't sully his soul sooner than his palms, anyroad. The Flames do what they can for us, o' course, but it ain't near enough.
And it's only gettin' worse. When the Calamity brought us to our knees, those rich bastards in the city didn't help us up─they climbed on our backs.
I don't pretend to be clever, but even I can see what's comin'. I knew we had to run, the only question was where. And then it came to me: Revenant's Toll!
I mean, you took them foreigners in, didn't you? So you'd surely do the same for us!
I... I fear the situation is rather more complicated. While it is true that we accepted the Domans' petition for aid, that decision was the product of extraordinary circumstances.
I sympathize deeply with your plight, but pray understand that it is not possible for an organization of our means to aid all who have been affected by the Calamity.
And so it is with great regret that I must deny your request.
But... But we've nowhere else to go! You're turnin' your back on us!?
If I might have a word...
Tataru? Is aught amiss?
Ill tidings from Ul'dah, my lady. Alphinaud has...Alphinaud has been wounded!
What!? How? Is it serious?
I cannot say for certain, but I fear it might be. According to the Flames, the refugees started a riot. They went wild, apparently─lashing out at any and everyone!
That can't be right! Why would they? They must've been provoked! The demonstration was meant to be peaceful!
Seven hells... Now the Blades have an excuse, they'll round us up and kill anyone who tries to resist!
Antecedent, please! If you won't help us build a new life, at least help us keep the ones we've got!
My lady...
We are not ones to stand idly by and watch innocents suffer.
However, until we know more of the circumstances surrounding this riot, I am not certain what aid, if any, we can provide.
If the authorities determine that the refugees attacked without provocation, then those responsible will have to answer for their actions.
How can you be so blind...?
Find Alphinaud, and quickly. If he is in danger─or worse─I would have you and none other by his side.
Thank you. Pray do not concern yourself with the matter we were discussing earlier. Yda and Papalymo will see to it.
Alphinaud is being treated at the Hourglass. Hurry, Forename!
Come, you must have gathered by now that Tataru is given to exaggeration. As you can see, I am quite well.
Ul'dah, on the other hand, is not. This riot was anything but an isolated incident.
There is a restlessness in the air. Tensions long simmering are at last threatening to boil over.
Ul'dah is a nation infamous for the great disparity between the wealthy and the poor. The majority of the populace accepts this state of affairs because they believe that every man bears responsibility for his own lot in life.
To an Ul'dahn, money is the foremost─and some would say the only─measure of a man's worth. Small wonder that the wealthiest wield the greatest influence.
So where do the refugees fit into this social hierarchy? What place is there for those who fled Ala Mhigo and the destruction of the Calamity?
Plainly, there is none. They have no wealth, no power, and no worth. To the Ul'dahn way of thinking, they may as well not exist.
Choosing to ignore their existence, however, is patently not an option. General Raubahn and the sultana understand this, which is why they ordered the Immortal Flames to provide the refugees aid and succor.
Yet none would dispute that the expenses incurred by this policy grow by the day, with no end in sight.
This has prompted more and more Ul'dahns to question their obligation to aid these worthless wanderers...
While more and more refugees have come to resent their treatment at the hands of the sneering citizenry.
The manner of Lord Lolorito's refusal to grant the Domans asylum bespoke a disdain for all refugees─an attitude shared by the rest of the Monetarists. And you may be sure they make no effort to conceal their opinions.
It was only a matter of time before the refugees united in protest. Nor is it any surprise that some among them would ultimately resort to violence.
That the Immortal Flames should choose this of all occasions to engage in joint training exercises with the other Grand Companies... By the time they return, the situation may well have deteriorated beyond mending.
As I told you before, it was all but inevitable that an incident of this kind would eventually occur given the rising tensions within the sultanate. Nevertheless, I have reason to believe that this particular riot may not have begun spontaneously.
Have I piqued your curiosity? Good. Then you will accompany me to the Hall of Flames. I would hear what General Raubahn has to say upon the matter.
Now is not a good time, Forename. My hands are full dealing with the refugees.
Precisely the matter we wish to discuss, General.
Alphinaud... Back on your feet already?
You may credit my swift recovery to your chirurgeons.
My memories of the riot are still somewhat muddled. I trust you managed to regain control of the situation?
Not entirely. We secured the city soon enough, but not before the unrest had spread to the surrounding territories. Pockets of resistance remain throughout Thanalan.
We have sent what forces we can spare to root out the last of the belligerents, but progress is slow. They are damnably elusive.
I can well imagine. Given that the majority of refugees live outside the walls, it stands to reason that they would know the lay of the land...
What I do not understand is how they came to be so well prepared. Before my little accident, I observed that several of the refugees were armed─and not with butcher's knives or pitchforks, but with martial weaponry. I need hardly add that such equipment is costly.
None can deny that tensions between the Ul'dahn citizenry and the refugee population have increased since the Domans were turned away, but would that motivate a starving man to purchase arms in lieu of food? I think not.
And what of those who have not even a single gil to spend, who could not survive without the aid provided by the Immortal Flames? Surely they would sooner sell a weapon than bring it to bear against their benefactors.
Come to the point.
...Very well. My point, General, is that this powder keg of discontent was not set alight by chance. These events were deliberately set in motion, and─
And now order must be restored. That is my first duty. Until it is done, any investigation can wait.
I do not have time to discuss this. My scouts will be returning anon.
The General is no fool. He keeps his own counsel─and with good cause.
Were he to claim, without the necessary proof, that these riots were instigated by outside forces, the Monetarists would accuse him of attempting to shirk responsibility. After all, he and the sultana have been the most outspoken proponents of refugee aid.
Regardless, they will face harsh criticism in the days ahead...
Our allies may stumble upon the truth in time, but I have far more faith in your abilities, Forename. Therefore, I propose we conduct our own investigation, independent of the authorities.
To that end, I would have you make inquiries in the settlements suspected of harboring belligerents. Commander Swift will know which they are. He may balk at a request for such information, but I've no doubt that you can persuade him with your silver tongue.
I, meanwhile, shall seek answers in my own way, after which we can regroup and share our findings. Well then, shall we?
You look as though you have something to say, Forename. Do you?
What you ask is no simple favor. Were such information to fall into the wrong hands, the lives of countless soldiers would be at risk. Even so...there is wisdom in your words. An able individual may be better suited to this task than a regiment.
Very well. The Brass Blades have reported suspicious activity in the vicinity of Lost Hope. It may be unrelated to recent events, but we doubt it. I suggest you begin by speaking to the Blades posted there.
