Commencing aetheric exposure testing. Repeat: commencing aetheric exposure testing. Retreat to a safe distance if you are not the subject.
Readying aether. Please stand back.
Ready to discharge. Test subjects, please gather near.
Warning: discharging aether!
Warning: discharging aether!
Subject has no irrepressible urge to empty their stomach? Confirmed─resuming test. Please follow.
Readying aether. Please stand back.
Ready to discharge. Test subjects, please gather near.
Warning: discharging aether!
Warning: discharging aether!
Subject stomach and bowel integrity holding? Confirmed─resuming test. Please follow.
Readying aether. Please stand back.
Ready to discharge. Test subjects, please gather near.
Warning: discharging aether!
Warning: discharging aether!
Subject fortitude rated...impressive! No irregularities...confirmed. Resuming test. Please follow and brace for final discharge.
Readying aether. Please stand back.
Ready to discharge. Test subjects, please gather near.
Warning: discharging aether!
Warning: discharging aether!
Aetheric exposure testing concluded. Please collect and deliver me to the supervising alchemist.
Congratulations on retaining your composure and your humours.
Ah, you've returned─and not on your knees. A promising sign! But come, let me take the deepa off your hands.
Thank you! I shall replenish its aether for when we test the talisman.
So, no dizziness or nausea or anything of the sort? You're feeling perfectly fine?
Then the strength of your blessing is beyond doubt. There is no risk that the tower will corrupt your aether.
With this, we can request your aid for the task ahead with easy hearts.
Hmm... You are a capable warrior too, are you not? Would you be amenable to assisting me with another errand?
You see, our talisman requires the use of a special ink, but we have exhausted our stores of a key ingredient for it─spiritweed.
The herb grows not far from here, and I would like to go and harvest some. With the recent spate of kidnappings, however, we Arkasodara travel alone at our peril.
Will you not come with me as my escort? I would compensate you for your troubles, of course.
I'm in your debt! Without further ado, let us head to Kadjaya's Footsteps. It is situated on the road which runs east of the Great Work.
I-I may simply be imagining it, but I feel as though we're being followed...
<gasp> Look out, Forename!
Subdue and capture...
Target found...
Gods, but that gave me a fright... To think that the moment I ventured outside the safety of the Work...
Thank the Sisters I asked you to come with me. You're all right, I hope?
Good, good. Let's continue on, then. It isn't far now─just through these pillars and up the rise.
And here we are─Kadjaya's Footsteps.
Kadjaya was a great dancer, and those who follow in her─well, you know─they come to this place to train and dedicate their dance to their ancestors.
A happy benefit of this is that spiritweed grows here in abundance. I will set about harvesting at once, if you would be so good as to stand guard.
The kidnappers aren't like to return soon, but better safe than sorry.
I'll gather the herb as quickly as I can. Please stand guard for me.
Yes, that would be Radz-at-Han. Hardly anyone has been allowed in or out since our troubles with the tower began.
The fearful citizens huddle inside the city walls, and commerce has all but ground to a standstill. I pity the satrap the trials he must be facing.
Well, he... He is the most important person in Radz-at-Han.
Completely! Without the satrap and his line, Radz-at-Han would not exist.
Long ago, this island was home to two tribes of Matanga─the Gajasura, and the Arkasodara.
When the Au Ra came to these shores, it was the Arkasodara with whom they joined forces. Together, they defeated the warlike Gajasura, forcing them to flee Thavnair altogether.
Peace and prosperity reigned for a time, until a clan of Hyur from the mainland decided they wanted the island for themselves.
It was a direct ancestor of the present satrap who arbitrated that conflict, and welded the warring factions into the nation we know today.
And ever since, a member of that esteemed lineage has inherited this somewhat unique position. You see, by and large, the state is run by the people, but when problems arise, it is the satrap who mediates a solution.
The stability provided by the satrap is what has allowed Radz-at-Han to thrive all these years.
And it was the satrap himself who entrusted us with this duty. We will not fail him, nor our countrymen!
What is the delay with the vessel!? I told you, I need to adjust those ratios!
I come all this way to admire one of my splendid towers, and what do I find? Fools attempting to ward off its tempering influence with magic trinkets.
I seem to recall a similar experiment in ages past. What was that man's name...?
“O” something... Oween?
Another body, another time. Who could be expected to remember every trivial detail...
Hmmm. Allowing them to construct such handy talismans would be counterproductive to my plans...
And yet, I find myself deathly curious. How will they manage this feat with the limited knowledge and resources at their disposal?
Complications be damned. For we cannot escape the nature of our souls. And I, as ever, am my own worst enemy.
I have enough spiritweed to last us a good while. Thank you for keeping watch!
Let us head back to the Great Work, shall we?
Forename, my thanks again for your assistance. With your help, we're that little bit closer to completing our talisman!
This isn't much, but please accept it as a token of my gratitude.
If you will excuse me, I shall return to my work on the talisman.
Ah, you are both back. Excellent.
I have a message for you, Mistress Nidhana.
It would seem the stores of giantsgall are running low.
What? But when last I looked, there was still plenty...
I suspect that was before Urianger told everyone about their tempering cure, and Estinien shared his knowledge of dragons. Your peers have since been inspired to fashion a number of new talisman prototypes.
I see... Well, if it leads to new possibilities, then far be it from me to complain, but we will need to replenish our stores...
I should be happy to tend to this if you like.
As much as I appreciate the offer, my dear boy, I can't in good conscience send you out there alone while kidnappers are at large.
Forename─loath though I am to press another task on you so soon, might I ask you to fetch the giantsgall?
In case you're not familiar, giantsgall is a type of ore found on the island. Owing to its hardness and aetherial conductivity, it has applications in many disciplines─alchemy not least of all.
The quarry where it is found, aptly named Giantsgall Grounds, isn't far away, so it shouldn't take much of your time. May we impose on you once more?
Thank you! Upon arriving at the grounds, please seek out a man named Zeynuha. He will furnish you with the ore.
At the very least, permit me to accompany you. It so happens I have an errand of my own that will take me to the outpost nearby.
May we borrow a pair of hamsa, Mistress Nidhana?
By all means. Do try to be patient with them─those that survived are still in training.
I will bring the hamsa to the entrance. Meet me there when you are ready.
Despite his tender years, Varshahn is thoughtful and dependable. It's easy to see why he was chosen to be the satrap's attendant!
Here are our hamsa, Forename. If the creatures look familiar, it is because they are close kin to your Eorzean dodos.
Hamsa have long been kept as livestock in Thavnair, and many a hatchery may be found here. Alas, the largest of these was recently razed by monsters from the tower.
On account of said hatchery being situated near the tower, the Radiant Host repurposed its remnants as an outpost.
That is where my errand takes me, and your own destination is but a stone's throw away.
If you have no objections, let us first make for the outpost. We set forth at your word.
You are ready? Then let us depart. You need only ride and relax─my bird and I will take the lead for yours to follow.
Let us be off. If you haven't ridden dodos before, be warned that they have a wobbling gait.
That spectacular formation stretching out over the water is called Khadga─a word which means “sword.”
This sword, legend holds, was wielded by the Manusya against the Mrga before it was cast down at conflict's end.
To the left and requiring no introduction is the tower. As you can see, it straddles a small isle.
Almost there. Though the main part of the hatchery is atop the cliff, the outpost itself is on the beach.
And here we are. Manned by the Radiant Host, this outpost is our first line of defense against the tower.
