You were followed, you bloody fool!
Damnation!
Hmph...
You are unarmed, my lady...and scarcely garbed for battle. But if you wish to fight...you are welcome to try.
What is the meaning of this, Captain? Would you arrest me for strolling in the Twelveswood? When last I looked, that was no crime─and neither was conversing with passing strangers.
You would feign ignorance, then? Very well.
If you do think of something to say, there will be plenty of time to say it later. Now, come quietly, or I shall make you wish you had.
I will offer you no struggle. After all, I have naught to hide.
Even a warrior of Roaille's renown could not have hoped to escape by force. Despite her claims, her surrender does not bespeak innocence, but an awareness that her position is untenable.
With the Ivy thus uprooted, it is to be hoped that the tendrils she entwined around the Immortal Flames will gradually wither and die.
Mayhap then the people of Ul'dah will have the Grand Company they deserve. But let us speak of the present. If I may ask, what will you do now, Forename?
...So the Scions seek a way into Iceheart's sanctum.
Then I daresay you are eager to return to the Rising Stones. Pray do not let me keep you.
Fear not─my countrymen and I shall tend to the aftermath. You need not waste your talents here.
And speaking of talents, have you considered training in the art of the shinobi? You have the aptitude for it, I believe, so please give it some thought. Till next time, my friend.
Welcome back, Forename. I understand that Alphinaud had a task for you. May I ask what it was?
Charges of treason and espionage against Eline Roaille? I can scarce believe it...
Could there not have been some manner of misunderstanding...?
No, it avails us naught to dwell on it. Whatever the truth may be, we must trust to the authorities to uncover it.
Let us speak of another matter. I am pleased to report that we have made progress in our efforts to find a way into Iceheart's sanctum...
As you may recall, Iceheart used the aetheryte in the depths of Snowcloak to teleport a short distance to the west─most likely to a sanctuary of some description. It is there that we suspect she means to summon Shiva using the crystals she stole from the House Fortemps caravan.
The heretics believe that they are bringing about the second coming of their patron saint. But if, as we suspect, they mean to hold a summoning ritual of the kind employed by the beast tribes, it seems likely that the result will be something more akin to a primal.
Suffice it to say, they must be stopped─and stop them we shall. But first, we must surmount the obstacle that Iceheart has placed in our path.
Ordinarily, it would be a simple matter to tap into the established Aethernet and thereby follow our quarry. However, despite our best efforts, we have been unable to ascertain the position of the aetheryte to which she teleported.
Our prevailing theory is that she destroyed the second aetheryte upon arrival─a reckless, desperate measure, but also an effective one.
After discussing the matter at length with Urianger, we have concluded that we lack the expertise to develop a solution.
...Which is why we have called upon the aid of one who does possess such expertise─a colleague of ours who is currently en route to Revenant's Toll from Sharlayan. She should be arriving within the hour, in fact.
Since you are here, mayhap we could welcome her together. I am certain she would appreciate the gesture. Let us make our way to the northern gates and await her coming.
