Shouldn't we stop them, Chief? Even if it's just rubber bullets, we're in the middle of town...
Be quiet. Just watch.
Ungh!
You little shit!
Looks like you've gotten slow in your old age...Vulture.
You and I are going to have a long talk.
I apologize for dueling in the middle of town. If you want to lock me up, then lock me up.
But please, let my friends go. They've done nothing wrong.
You drew your gun within town limits.
But Wihuwte drew first. Far as I'm concerned, you acted in self-defense. You're free to go.
As are your friends.
Hah, you're not such a bad guy after all!
Just a man of the wilds, like you.
But to think that Wihuwte had taken control of the Daybreakers... It pains me that it happened right under my nose.
What are you gonna do about his crew? Some of them are still in Tonatenyawi.
Those who have broken the law will be taken into custody.
But those who haven't will be given the chance to resume walking the strait and narrow.
What about you, Zekowa? What do you intend to do now?
Why, what I've always done.
Protect the weak and help the helpless─the old-fashioned way!
Here. This was Vow Wuk Lamat's gift for someone, wasn't it?
Yes, a person very dear to her.
I suppose this is where we go our separate ways. My thanks again for your help apprehending the Vulture.
Hahaha! That was a pretty nice shot, right?
That ended up being rather more complicated than expected, but all's well that ends well.
Phew! Finally, it's over!
I couldn't have brought him to justice without your help. I don't know how I'll ever repay you.
Now that we have the bracelet, let us return to Sheshenewezi Springs.
Will you be staying there long? I'd like to give you a proper thanks after I find my friends.
We weren't planning on it, but there's no need to rush. We'll see you at the Springs, then.
I'll catch up to you just as soon as I've taken care of my friends.
Welcome back. I'm glad to hear those bandits got what they deserved.
They were understandably worried, but I've told them of what happened in Hhusatahwi. Our minor adventure made for quite the tale.
My bracelet. Thank you. Thank you so much.
This is more than just a gift. It is a part of me I could never hope to replace.
Truly, Wuk Lamat is blessed to have such devoted friends.
Well, I wouldn't put it quite that way... I prefer to think of us more as long-standing acquaintances.
Regardless of how you choose to describe it, there's no denying the depth of your bond. Though I'm sure you'll continue to do so.
Can't say I'm surprised the deputy chief turned out to be the bandits' leader. I always knew something wasn't right about him.
An easy claim to make with the gift of hindsight.
There you are. The real Daybreakers have arrived!
I'd like you to meet my two best friends, Kwikana and Liwine.
