Become one with the star...
Fill earth and heaven with life. Birth paradise where fear is distant memory.
Pardon me, but would you be so kind as to step aside?
Ah. That unmistakable color. The soul of Azem.
But not the friend I knew, I think. Nevertheless, you are you.
Hmm... So, Emet-Selch meant for you to have it.
You seem surprised. Why might that be?
Again? I do not believe I have yet had the pleasure.
Chief of the Bureau of the Architect, in fact. My name is “Hythlodaeus.”
But how did you come to be familiar with our bureaus?
Emet-Selch created a shade in my likeness? And not only me, but all of Amaurot?
Heh heh... How very like him... Heh heh heh...
A slave to sentiment, even after an eternity.
As you may have guessed, I am different from the shade you met before. No mere approximation, but the original.
A soul sacrificed to Zodiark.
We remember in vivid detail the events leading to our purgatory.
The plans and plots for our resurrection. Hydaelyn's intervention, and Zodiark's─and the star's─final fate.
And then we drifted in a waking dream, our minds steeped in fog...until you came.
I know not what you and your friends intend for Zodiark or the future of the star. Nevertheless...
In you I place my trust and faith. In you I choose to believe, as Emet-Selch did.
Believe in yourself, and all will be well.
Hmm, more new arrivals. Though... Ah. Fandaniel. That color I know.
And another I do not. An unfamiliar but fearsome being...
I have kept you from your duty. By way of apology, I will ensure that the shades hinder you no more.
Protect the final brand.
Fare you well, my new old friend.
Fare you well, my new old friend.
Fare you well, my new old friend.
Fare you well, my new old friend.
In the nick of time to savor the crowning triumph.
Unbound and free at last. Arise, Zodiark!
Deprived of heart and will by the loss of dearest Elidibus...
A creature of pure instinct, wanting for guidance...
But powerful, oh so powerful. More so with every passing moment.
Such potential, even in this incomplete state. Still the savior who delivered a world from certain doom.
So. Here we stand.
You know my intent. Consume the god, then the world. Stoke your fury to a raging inferno and dance among the ashes.
Or perhaps you would face me here and now? A lesser but welcome amusement.
Yes... A taste to whet the appetite.
Sorry to spoil the moment, but might I ask that you postpone the slaughter until I have said my piece? I promise I will be brief.
Do you remember when I told you that I wanted to die and take everyone with me? I meant it.
