I... I... <wheeze>
I... I... <wheeze>
Oh. I did not see you there. Is there something you need?
Injuries are part and parcel of battle. While there's breath in my lungs, I shall see my duties done.
...Appoint another. A captain's place is with her soldiers in the field.
Don't pretend you are not of the same mind. You fought well today. Saved a great many lives. Thank you.
Unfortunately, this war is far from over. We must replenish our ranks and shore up our defenses before they attack again.
Now, if you will excuse me.
I...am fine...
Completely...and utterly...fine! Better than fine! Hale and hearty and still alive to mourn those who are not. Who I failed to protect when they needed me most.
We've come so far─so godsdamned far! I could have sworn the end was in sight. And now...
Now they will never see it.
Impudent worms of the Crystarium.
The tragedy that has befallen you is of your own making. Divine retribution for your defiance.
The heavens have bequeathed to you a benevolent savior─me! I offer you freedom from pain and suffering─a paradise where man and sin eater might live in peace and harmony...
Why, already our winged brothers and sisters regard me and mine as kin, alike to them in beauty and purity!
But you─you not only reject my proffered hand, but raise your own against my sin eaters. 'Tis only right that they respond in kind.
Let this be a lesson to all those who would walk the path of sin─the wicked shall not inherit this world!
Vauthry's ship is already gone. How flattering that he came all this way just to give his little speech.
...I apologize for my earlier outburst. Rest assured that I have no intention of allowing any of my wounds to affect the performance of my duties─especially not now.
If I may─could I ask that you seek out Thancred and Minfilia for me? They endangered themselves on my behalf, and I would feel better knowing that they are well looked after.
Thancred, in particular, sustained quite an injury from that sin eater. I would not be surprised if he were in Spagyrics still.
Please...give them my thanks.
...You're here for me? I'm sorry to put you to the trouble─I'm fine. Really.
The eater landed an unfortunately solid blow, but the healers here have done wonders.
I'm more worried about Minfilia. She's not taken it well.
Could I ask you to speak with her? My attempts to reach out seem to have had the opposite effect. She's gone off to the Hortorium, ostensibly to fetch herbs for Chessamile, but... Just talk to her, will you?
...
...
Eep!
Oh, Forename. What are you doing here?
Thancred...
It's my fault, you know. I jumped at the chance to help Lyna, but I was careless. And now...
It's my fault.
I...are you sure? I've brought him nothing but trouble thus far.
And what if it's worse, next time? All I do is make mistakes, put others in danger...
I'm sure that he'll resent me. For being this weak. Maybe he already does.
Oh, what have I done? I promised I'd be right back, and yet here I am...
I know that I need to be better. I'm only allowed to be a part of this because I'm Minfilia, and I need to be...more like her.
All I do is make mistakes, put others in danger...
But you're right. I can still help─if only by seeing these herbs safely to Chessamile.
There are only two left on the list, but I'll need to ask about this one. I've looked high and low, and I can't seem to find it anywhere. Would you mind collecting the other? I would hate to delay any longer than I already have.
You're looking for something with soft leaves that's very fragrant─“in an unmistakably medicinal way,” I was told. We only need two sprigs or so.
Once you've got them, you can bring them directly to Chessamile. Whoever gets there first can explain that the other will be back shortly. Thank you─I appreciate the help!
Once you've got them, you can bring them directly to Chessamile. Whoever gets there first can explain that the other will be back shortly. Thank you─I appreciate the help!
Once you've got them, you can bring them directly to Chessamile. Whoever gets there first can explain that the other will be back shortly. Thank you─I appreciate the help!
Once you've got them, you can bring them directly to Chessamile. Whoever gets there first can explain that the other will be back shortly. Thank you─I appreciate the help!
Once you've got them, you can bring them directly to Chessamile. Whoever gets there first can explain that the other will be back shortly. Thank you─I appreciate the help!
Ah, Minfilia told me that you would be bringing the rest.
Marvelous. With this, I can replenish our store of medicines. We're struggling to keep up with the number of wounded that are being brought in.
I wasn't on the field, but it doesn't matter. The patients' faces make plain that it was a horrible battle.
And we're still fighting it, I suppose, though with bitter medicine rather than sharp steel. But we'll win─I promise you that.
It seems that I owe you an apology for dragging you to yet another battlefield when you've just come off the front lines!
In both cases, I'm sure your efforts saved more than a few. With Spagyrics in good working order, the Crystarium's people will be well cared for.
More lie ahead, of course─battles only you can fight. Not that we intend to let you do it alone. But that's a matter to discuss with the Exarch.
