Ah, mayhap you can clear this up. The contingent has made a reasonable request, but this man insists that it's impossible.
It concerns the magitek weapons which run rampant throughout Regio Urbanissima. Every time we deliver supplies here, we have to dispatch extra men to defend against potential attacks.
To address the issue once and for all, we've proposed the elimination of all machina that loiter near the supply route. But you heard him─they refuse to even consider it.
The magistrates have already spoken on this matter! “Rampant” or no, those warmachina are Garlean assets. Furthermore, who is to say they are as dangerous as you attest?
It has been suggested that this could be a pretense to scavenge magitek materiel for your own ends. I know not if that is the case, but the fact remains, we cannot allow you to destroy them.
More speculation by the magistrates, I presume. Ridiculous, but they have spoken, and unless we want to inflame tensions further, there's naught we can do...
How complicated relations become when not grounded in a clear and equitable arrangement...
An equitable arrangement... Of course!
Well do I understand the difficulty of your position. As a soldier, you must do your duty, and obey your superiors.
I have an idea, but I must first speak with Commander Lucia. May I take charge of this matter?
B-By all means...
Let us return to Camp Broken Glass, where we might discuss a solution I believe will satisfy all parties.
You are returned. With glad tidings, I hope.
I have completed mine inspection of the tower. Thou shalt be pleased to hear that the transference of aether will pose no difficulty.
Leave this to me, my friend.
What do you suppose he has in mind?
He seems awfully confident...
Er, who is this person again...?
Welcome back, all of you. I pray there have been positive developments in your efforts to appeal to the Garlean community.
Mayhap not yet, but there is a method by which I believe all stand to gain.
As satrap, I intend to propose a trade agreement between Radz-at-Han and the people of Garlemald.
Please continue.
The people of this nation have lived through its collapse and more. Yet they have chosen to remain, for it is their home.
That they have been able to survive thus far is thanks to the Ilsabard contingent. Or rather, in less flattering terms, they are entirely at your mercy.
Despite your noble intentions, this one-sided relationship has fueled feelings of frustration and resentment. 'Tis no surprise then that some Garleans are loath to engage with foreigners, for fear of indebting themselves further, or surrendering more of their already limited autonomy.
That is why I wish to present them with an equitable arrangement.
One that would restore to them a sense of agency after having been forced to rely upon charity.
Easier said than done. What exactly did you have in mind?
Long have Garlemald and Radz-at-Han abided by a treaty of noninterference. Freely have we traded with one another, and I wish but to continue in this tradition.
We would provide your people with such supplies as you require, in return for which you would grant us leave to use the Tower of Babil, as well as share your magitek resources and expertise.
As we become more reliant upon your technologies, we will of course require more ceruleum to fuel them. This you possess in abundance, and for it you will be duly compensated. Radz-at-Han's culture will be enriched by your magitek wonders, and our ever-increasing demand for your wares will see Garlemald grow wealthy and prosperous.
Only when both sides keep the interests of the other in mind can an equitable relationship be forged. 'Tis a principle I once thought I understood, but have come to appreciate all the more in recent days─thanks to the sage counsel of a friend from beyond the rift.
Your Excellency, thank you for your careful consideration of Garlemald's future. Though I cannot speak for every Garlean, I myself see no reason to object to your proposal.
Indeed, if Radz-at-Han were to take the initiative, other nations may follow suit and seek to normalize trade relations with us.
If you see the sense in my proposal, then I ask you to join me in the negotiations at Tertium. Your support may be instrumental in winning over Lords Gnaeus and Mettius.
By all means, go with them. I have matters here well in hand.
I have learned all that I may regarding the tower's operation, so I too shall hie me to Tertium.
An equitable arrangement... The satrap has a pragmatic vision for the future.
If a trade agreement can be forged, I dare to hope it will thaw relations with the Garleans. Until then, I'll keep on trying to convince them of the need to decommission these dangerous weapons. Diplomatically, that is.
Can we finally begin the negotiations?
A crowd you may have brought, but numbers will not intimidate us. The Tower of Babil is ours by rights, and nothing you do will convince us otherwise!
Rest assured, it is not our intent to infringe upon the rights of the people of Garlemald. Let us instead discuss the future.
As the satrap of Radz-at-Han, I wish to establish a new trade agreement between our nations.
The aid we presently receive will not last forever, my lords. Sooner or later, we must stand on our own two feet.
But to do so, we must secure a means to replenish our coffers, and the proposed agreement presents a rare opportunity.
Hmmm... 'Tis true we do not want for magitek and ceruleum, and foreign currency will be needed to procure such things as we lack...
It would depend on the precise terms, but I can see the merits.
What!? I can't believe what I'm hearing! You served the Emperor─were a proud patriot─yet now you entertain selling national resources like a common merchant!?
Like you, I weep for what we have lost. But if we are to rebuild Garlemald, we must make use of what precious few assets remain to us.
Nonsense. Utter nonsense. You are a traitor, Gnaeus, and there will be a reckoning. Oh yes. When the people of Senatus learn of this, they will cry out for your blood!
Lord Mettius, wait! It isn't safe out there!
An embarrassing display. A man of Mettius's station should have the capacity to keep his emotions in check.
I'm not surprised. Some people cannot be moved by mere words.
While I am thrilled Lord Gnaeus was willing to consider my proposal, I am worried about Lord Mettius...
To the best of my knowledge, Lord Mettius is a civil servant with no combat experience. Should he meet with misfortune, he may fare poorly.
I fear for Lord Mettius...
It's far too dangerous for a civilian to be outside alone! We must go after Lord Mettius!
Let us leave matters here in Maxima's care while the rest of us join in the search.
If Lord Mettius is bound for Senatus, we may be able to catch up to him in Regio Urbanissima. I pray he has not come to any harm...
Do not worry about us. Just see that Lord Mettius does not come to harm. Please.
Do not worry about us. Just see that Lord Mettius does not come to harm. Please.
I-I'm alive...?
Praise the Sisters you are safe!
Don't think I'm indebted to you. I never asked for your help.
You love Garlemald dearly, Lord Mettius. That much is plain. But you're not alone in that.
We all mourn what has become of our homeland. Bristle at having to rely upon outsiders simply to survive the cold.
Even now, I struggle with fear and uncertainty. Day after day, I ask myself, what is right? Where do we go from here?
I've yet to find the answers.
But I won't stop looking nonetheless. And I won't avert my gaze from our grim reality.
Is there hope for us?
Aye. So long as we live.
Garlemald lies in ruins, but the bonds between us will never be broken.
We are the chain that connects generations past and future. You and I its links. Help us, Lord Mettius, for all we have been and for what we may yet become. Please.
To be lectured by the young... It ill becomes a man of my station.
I will rejoin the talks at Tertium. Might I trouble you to escort me?
Ere we part... I apologize for my...discourtesy. I owe you my life, and...I thank you.
Jullus, wait. I'd like a word.
With you as well. I'm to stay close, after all.
Worry not, we shall see the magistrate safely back to Tertium.
What is it?
You bound that man with trust, didn't you? That's why he did not require coercion to return.
Er... Shall we walk, perhaps? Chilly standing around here.
So that's how Zero came to join you.
Still, I'm not sure I'm qualified to explain something like trust.
I wouldn't describe myself as a sociable person. Before all...this...any free time I had, I spent looking after my brother and sister.
As for the magistrate, I only told him what's been on my mind of late...
But I wouldn't have done so, I think, if it weren't for the twins' influence.
Trust is infectious, in a manner of speaking. When someone believes in you, it makes you want to believe in them. In others. In yourself.
Perhaps it's because the magistrate felt that earnestness that he gave us a chance. As I did, after I was caught trying to steal provisions from “the enemy.” Trust comes easy in such company.
Little wonder my world is devoid of it.
No one trusts in you, and so you trust in no one. And round the wheel turns.
During the Contramemoria, we had already come to judge one another based on strength and usefulness.
You either used or were used. Those who rejected this rule didn't survive.
My mother wanted to save the world. To fulfill the hopes of memoriates good and true. After she died, I carried on her mission alone.
Alone... Didn't you have anyone to help you?
Almost. Two men tried, just the once.
A swordsman and a mage, whom I met when passing through a village. They had saved the people there from corrupted memoriates.
When they learned our enemies were the same, they seemed heartened.
They claimed to be soldiers of a kingdom called Baron, and were traveling the realm in search of a means to end the Contramemoria.
They invited me to join them. I refused. How could I not, having learned the lessons of my world?
Those who would work with others always have their own motives. I would not place myself at their mercy. I would not be forced to submit.
I expected some manner of outburst. Some show of frustration at having failed to deceive me. But they simply watched me walk away.
I didn't know what to make of it then, but now... Perhaps they shared a bond of trust. Perhaps they were the last ones left who dared.
Perhaps they hoped I was like them, too. Perhaps it was just an offer and nothing more.
I continued fighting alone. But ultimately, I was undone. Overwhelmed by enemies that had banded together.
I was cold. In pain. Wishing desperately that someone would save me.
And as I lay there in solitude, I felt it happen. The breaking of our world.
Darkness washed over me, and I was swept into the rift.
When I finally managed to return, it was to a world forever transformed. My home, now filled with abominations.
I had a chance to learn about trust...and forsook it.
I never had the power to save my home single-handed. I should have accepted their invitation.
Had I joined them, as I've joined you, I might not have had to face the end of the world alone.
But it's all history, now. No amount of reflection or regret will change our present reality.
Whatever may have happened in the past, you're still here, Zero. Alive.
So long as you're alive, there will always be hope. No matter how bad things get.
What you couldn't do yesterday, you might still do today.
Think about it. It's plain that you've forged bonds with those around you.
If you didn't feel that in some sense, would you have risked your life as you did for a meager ration of buuz?
I trust you too, for what it's worth.
Here it is again.
The fire that burned in my breast when you came to my rescue. The urge to weep, though there is no sorrow...
If this is trust, then what must I do? How do I answer it?
Give me your hand.
It's not something you do constantly, mind. A friend is a friend regardless.
A “friend”? ...So that's what it means.
Someone you trust.
When I first met Zero, I wasn't sure what to make of her forthright-to-a-fault nature. But now I understand she is simply an honest soul to the core.
Thank you. I feel at last as though I've found the answers I sought, and I owe it all to you and Jullus.
Right, then. I expect the others have already arrived back at Tertium. We should join them.
Full glad am I to see everyone returned, and none the worse for wear.
Various representatives of the Garlean community are gathered here this very moment. I daresay this is a fine opportunity to announce the trade agreement.
You've read the memorandum─I trust you find the terms acceptable?
I do. And, Gnaeus... I pray you forgive my disgraceful conduct earlier. I am ashamed not only of my behavior, but of placing the burden of negotiations solely on your shoulders in my absence.
You should know that, when we brought up the subject of the tower's reactivation to the people at Tapper's Den, some reacted quite strongly.
Once we explained that it would be to prevent another voidsent invasion, however, they were more receptive. It's fair to say the recent episode is still fresh in their minds.
I tagged along to deliver a supply of ceruleum. Have to say, I didn't expect to see such a large crowd. Even the stuffy imperials who normally keep to themselves in Senatus are here.
Ahem. My friends and countrymen, lend me your ears!
I am pleased to inform you all on this joyous occasion that we, the people of Garlemald, have entered into a trade agreement with Radz-at-Han!
To inaugurate our accord, we intend to grant the individuals before you access to the Tower of Babil. In return, Radz-at-Han will provide us with supplies, which shall be equally distributed amongst the settlements of our nation.
Let me be clear on one point: this is not an act of charity, but trade. A bargain struck between equals, rooted in trust and respect. And it marks a significant step towards rebuilding our nation and regaining true independence.
Radz-at-Han holds Garlean technology and ingenuity in the highest esteem. It is my hope that, through this agreement, our peoples will enjoy a mutually beneficial relationship for years to come.
Now then, we bid you gather round to hear the particulars, that you might convey them to those elsewhere.
So burdened by hardship and trauma were the people of Garlemald that they were unable to imagine a brighter future.
To be recognized as equals─as a nation with something of value to offer to others... That validation alone is enough to rekindle their hope.
'Tis by virtue of this partnership that we may access the Tower of Babil. A rather timely development given the aether tanks' impending arrival.
Once the tower's stores have been replenished, we need but await Y'shtola's signal to channel the energy to the moon, yes?
Then you can leave that and anything else on this end to me and Alphinaud. No need to worry─devote all your energies to the mission in the void.
As ever, I am in your debt.
...You are good friends.
"Good friends,“ eh? And coming from her, you know she's not just saying it to be nice.
I'm not wrong to call them that, am I? Friends.
Moments like these give me hope that we still have a place in this world...
Both Radz-at-Han and Garlemald stand to benefit greatly from this agreement. It may well mark the beginning of a long and fruitful relationship.
Garlean technology shall enrich my people's lives and empower them to achieve great new feats. I am particularly eager to see what our alchemists are inspired to create.
Let us take a moment to review matters as they stand.
Having procured sufficient stores of aether, we may now channel the requisite energy unto the moon via the Tower of Babil. Our work on the star is complete.
However, we have yet to receive word from Y'shtola as to the state of the lunar preparations.
A ritual to open the gate, and measures to forestall a voidsent invasion...
Neither task is simple nor quickly completed. She would doubtless benefit from our assistance.
The very thing I was about to propose. Let us join her above and lend what aid we may.
Ere we set forth, however, Y'shtola did bid me relay a message to thee.
As thou art well aware, a key objective of our mission is the extraction of thy sister Azdaja from the void.
Held captive for millennia and divested of an eye, she is like to be severely weakened. To make good her escape, she shall require aid─aid that is best provided by a fellow great wyrm.
You would have me go in my true form?
Very well. Like our sire, we great wyrms are capable of traversing the great expanse. The journey will take some time, but I shall take myself to the moon.
To begin with, I shall return this vessel to Radz-at-Han, that I may have both my eyes.
And until such time as we find Azdaja, I would entrust her eye to your keeping.
Will you do this for me?
We shall contact you via linkpearl once all is in place on the moon. You need but follow Y'shtola's instructions.
Understood. We'll be ready.
Take care, Zero.
It will be the briefest of homecomings. I'll be back before you know it.
In Mare Lamentorum, then. Go well!
You take care as well, Forename.
The trade agreement discussions do not require our input, so Alisaie and I are free to attend to the Tower of Babil without distractions.
Leave the tower to us!
The moon... When Zenos brought me here, I remember feeling surprised that such a desolate place could exist in the Source.
I took the liberty of informing Y'shtola of our arrival. She and her entourage should be here momentarily.
Forgive me, I'd hoped to have everything in order sooner. My thanks for the extra hands.
Alphinaud and Alisaie stand ready at the Tower of Babil. Vrtra is also en route.
Excellent. You've done well, all of you.
For my part, I've managed to prepare the ritual with help from the watcher.
All that remains is to channel the aether from below. This should─I pray─open a gate leading to the moon of the Thirteenth.
May I just say how excited we are to be a part of this grand undertaking! The development of the artificial Atomos was one thing, but this is an opportunity like no other!
Y'shtola even managed to get a loan of Allagan treatises on voidsent summoning from the prized collection of the Sons of Saint Coinach!
The empire's application of aetherochemistry in regulating voidgates provided us with many a useful insight for our work, let me tell you!
I asked a favor of G'raha Tia when we were comparing notes on cross-rift travel.
Given his credentials, I was confident he wouldn't be denied.
The knowledge of our forebears has brought us far. As has our own.
And with our knowledge and resources, we shall construct a voidsent containment seal on a heretofore unseen scale.
Containment seal... Then thou wouldst make use of...
Aye. A tried and tested means of holding dark entities at bay is readily available here. 'Twould be remiss of us not to employ it.
We shall reforge the brands that Zenos and Fandaniel destroyed.
That which held even Zodiark shall more than suffice for voidsent of any persuasion.
The watcher is already hard at work tending to the most critical parts of the brands' restoration.
There are, however, a number of concerning factors that remain. With your help, I'm sure we can resolve them!
Time is of the essence, so I suggest we continue this discussion as we make our way to the brands.
So this is one of the brands that once imprisoned Zodiark... Were I to describe it to my comrades back home, I doubt my words could do it justice.
Y'shtola hath done well indeed to devise a seal in so short a time. 'Tis a testament to her ingenuity in times of need.
This seal we mean to erect─I assume it won't hinder a half-voidsent like me from going in the other direction.
How did you fare with the preparations below?
Now then, to the matter at hand.
With the watcher's assistance, we shall reforge each of Zodiark's brands, and use them to erect a barrier capable of repelling voidsent.
Yet though we expect it to be effective against larger beings on account of its original purpose, there is a chance it will allow lesser voidsent to slip through.
Therefore we shall require a second line of defense─and I believe the Loporrits' supporters would be suitable for this purpose.
Urianger, Forename─the two of you have a strong rapport with our lunar allies. I would have you meet with Livingway in Bestways Burrow and provide any assistance they require.
I will join you. As a voidsent, my knowledge may be of use.
An excellent idea. In the meantime, the rest of us will see to reforging the brands. I will send word when we have finished─pray do the same.
First, we shall see to this brand.
We will have the brands in working order before you know it!
We have matters here well in hand. Go, meet with the Loporrits.
What are these...things?
Livingway, I trust thou hast been well?
There you are! Y'shtola has apprised me of your present undertaking.
I understand that she wishes to deploy our pride and joy─the veritable carrots of our eye─our unrivaled combat supporters─as a precautionary measure in case this voidsent containment seal of hers proves lacking.
As we speak, my fellows are rounding up what units they can, and will bring them to the northeast corner in short order. Please wait there.
Despite their bestial appearance, these creatures are highly intelligent. And much like you and yours, they take pleasure in helping others...
Ever grateful am I for the Loporrits' irrepressible compulsion to help.
Dreadfully sorry to have kept you all waiting!
Hello there, friends. And new person. Heard there was a bit of a rush, so we gathered what combat-ready supporters we had available.
A welcome contribution. Thine initiative never ceaseth to amaze.
Oh, stop! You're making me blush!
Though we have fulfilled the purpose given to us by Hydaelyn, aiding the people of Etheirys remains our greatest joy.
So you can count on us, ever and always!
Right, so! We originally deployed these supporters to patrol the moon and keep it safe.
They've never tussled with voidsent before, but with sufficient data, they ought to hold their own against the ghastly fiends.
Practical, tactical data, acquired in the moment. And who better to give the supporters an educational thrashing than the champion of Etheirys?
I believe I would make a better instructor.
Not only have I fought voidsent─I am one.
Well don't just stand there, engage!
Engage, engage, engage!
That'll do! That'll do!
A defeat bitterer than the bitterest carrot... Using this experience, we must enhance the supporters and turn them into voidsent slaughter-bots!
Indeed... Right after we've managed to put the poor dears back together.
Pray forgive our comrade's enthusiasm. May I inquire as to how long the repairs will take?
On an ordinary day, I'd say no less than five carrots, briskly consumed.
But if you were to provide us with encouragement...
We just might be able to do it in two.
This, I leave to you.
This, I leave to you.
I wonder if these creatures also once existed on the void's moon... But even if they did, they must all be voidsent by now.
To be clear, we will always do everything within our power to aid the people of Etheirys. As I'm sure you'll agree, though, it doesn't hurt to have a little encouragement!
Though I fear my laudations will leave them wanting, I shall do mine utmost to rally the Loporrits.
N-Never fear, we shall ensure the supporters are ready for any voidsent brazen enough to slip through! And if they seem to struggle, we'll rally them! Or at least we would, if someone were kind enough to demonstrate...
N-Never fear, we shall ensure the supporters are ready for any voidsent brazen enough to slip through! And if they seem to struggle, we'll rally them! Or at least we would, if someone were kind enough to demonstrate...
N-Never fear, we shall ensure the supporters are ready for any voidsent brazen enough to slip through! And if they seem to struggle, we'll rally them! Or at least we would, if someone were kind enough to demonstrate...
Oooh, thank you very, very much! You don't know how uplifting it is to have you encouraging us! I mean, uh, showing us the proper technique so we may keep our supporters operating at peak efficiency!
Overclocking to increase maximum output... For the sake of the people of Etheirys, we cannot settle for “good enough”!
Oh, what could be more splendiferous than to repair our supporters under the loving gaze of people from Etheirys! Nothing, I tell you! Nothing! Save for one such individual to rally us while we go about it, but a humble Loporrit can only dream...
Oh, what could be more splendiferous than to repair our supporters under the loving gaze of people from Etheirys! Nothing, I tell you! Nothing! Save for one such individual to rally us while we go about it, but a humble Loporrit can only dream...
Oh, what could be more splendiferous than to repair our supporters under the loving gaze of people from Etheirys! Nothing, I tell you! Nothing! Save for one such individual to rally us while we go about it, but a humble Loporrit can only dream...
Hum hum-hummm～♪With you cheering me on, I can do naught less than my very best!
Next to the maintenance of the atmospheric circulation system, making adjustments to these supporters is as easy as changing your socks!
The repairs? Oh, they proceed apace, I assure you! But...they might go even more swiftly if you were to spur us on. Rally us, as it were... <wink> <wink>
The repairs? Oh, they proceed apace, I assure you! But...they might go even more swiftly if you were to spur us on. Rally us, as it were... <wink> <wink>
The repairs? Oh, they proceed apace, I assure you! But...they might go even more swiftly if you were to spur us on. Rally us, as it were... <wink> <wink>
What a marvelous feeling! There's nothing like wild gesticulations of encouragement to fire you up!
Forget two─at this rate, we'll finish in a carrot and a half!
<yawn> Rally the engineers... E-Enga...ge...
<yawn> Rally the engineers... E-Enga...ge...
<yawn> Rally the engineers... E-Enga...ge...
What!? Engage, engage!
Oh, sorry, I was in the midst of... Forgive me. The sight of precision parts is strangely soothing and sleep...inducing... But...I'll try to...keep moving... <yawn>
Total...annih...ilation...of...voidsent...
My, everyone is in high spirits indeed!
Thanks to your encouragement, we'll have the supporters up and running again in no time at all!
Pray attend to your remaining busywork, and leave the deployment of our new and improved voidsent slaughter-bots to us!
Can you hear me? We've just finished restoring the brands.
Let us reconvene once you've finished tending to matters there. The culmination of our efforts is nigh!
Y'shtola, was it?
The brands are ready, I presume? Excellent. With the Loporrits having deployed their supporters, we are ready to proceed.
Let us rejoin Y'shtola posthaste, and prise open our gate unto the void.
With Estinien keeping us safe, we were able to finish repairing the brands without incident!
Some manner of cactuar attempted to make mischief, but no one came to harm. How did you fare?
I have duly informed Y'shtola of our task's completion.
While you all tend to matters in the Thirteenth, I shall remain here and ensure the integrity of gate and seal both.
This is it...
My thanks for seeing to the supporters. With this, all is in readiness for the ritual.
First, I shall give the order to Alphinaud and Alisaie in the Tower of Babil to channel aether to the moon.
Once we have amassed a sufficient amount of energy, Urianger and I shall begin our incantations to open a voidgate.
If all goes well, a tear will form in the fabric of reality, at which point you must activate the brands and put in place the containment seal.
That is all. If there are no questions, then let us begin!
Apologies for the wait. The preparations here are finally complete.
Excellent. The tower too is activated. But give the word, and we will begin channeling the aether.
Very well, then. Make it so.
The moment of truth!
By the Sisters...
Urianger, commence your invocations. 'Tis time to open our gate!
A tear is beginning to form! Quickly, activate the brands!
Success... The gate is open, and the seal appears to be in place...
Let's see how well it holds.
