Greetings, honored madam. Will you be entering the Ruby Bazaar offices?
We spoke with a number of merchants and captains at the southern piers.
Several recognized Gosetsu and confirmed that he had been searching for a vessel to deliver him to Othard. None, however, made any mention of Lady Yugiri...
Yes, it was the same story for us─and then you'll never believe what happened...!
...So this Gyodo claims to have aided both Gosetsu and Yugiri? How fortuitous.
Not the word I would have chosen, Master Alphinaud.
Stupid's what I'd call it! How can you agree to his price without making any attempt to haggle? Or even confirming what it was in the first place!?
Yes...that too was a misstep on their part, but it is not what troubles me most. Gyodo and his brethren are not renowned for their generosity of spirit. Rather, they are disdained as scheming moneylenders, ever eager to turn a profit from others' misfortune.
Everyone else we questioned stated that Gosetsu was alone. Only Gyodo claims to have met both him and Yugiri...
I suppose it's just possible that Gosetsu made inquiries by himself, and only called upon Yugiri once he had found a willing captain...?
...But it is equally possible─if not more likely─that you are being deceived. Do not forget that there are parties present in Kugane with agendas which may run contrary to your own.
The viceroy was once a spy herself, as I recall. I should be surprised if she did not have countless agents here in her employ─all eager to prove themselves to their new master. And what better way to do so than by delivering her the heads of foreign insurgents?
Fine. You may be right about him. But if Gyodo's working for the Empire, who's to say he didn't try the same trick on Yugiri and Gosetsu? I mean, if he did, he might know where they are. And if he succeeded, they might be in trouble!
Anyway, if he holds up his end of the bargain, we'll have nothing to worry about, will we? But if he tries to betray us, I vote we take him prisoner and punch him till he tells us the truth.
So, if it's a trap, we'll spring it and deal with the consequences. Hmm...I like the way you think.
<sigh> Very well... We should prepare for the worst. Tataru will remain here, and I shall follow the three of you at a discreet distance.
Once more, I must caution you to avoid physical altercations at all costs─even should imperial agents attempt to engage you. The Sekiseigumi will not hesitate to clap you in irons...or cut you down.
If anything untoward should happen, you are to return here at once. Is that clear?
To review: Lyse, Forename, and I will meet with Gyodo as planned.
Alphinaud will keep watch from a distance, ready to provide support in the likely event that Gyodo attempts to betray us to the imperials or whomever else.
Should that happen, you and Lyse will subdue him, and together we will make our escape.
As our actions will surely draw the attention of the Sekiseigumi, we will evade them with Alphinaud's assistance and return here with our prisoner. Does that meet with everyone's approval?
Of course, these precautions will be for naught if Gyodo does not play us for fools...but we shall see. To the bridge!
Our would-be ally is nowhere to be seen... Make ready, Forename. Something smells...fishy...
He's late...
Endless and most sincere apologies to you and yours, yes, yes.This way, this way. Quickly now!
Enough. Where are you taking us? Where is the ship?
The ship, the ship... So very sorry to inform you, yes, yes.Long before was it pledged to another.
To me, to me! These ones are for Doma!
<sigh> I knew it couldn't be this simple...
Nothing personal, yes, yes? Just business.
Then business is about to take a turn for the worse...
Come on, let's find a way out of here!
Disappointing, but not surprising. In retrospect, we probably should have─
Quiet, Brother! Fight now, talk after!
I'll hold on to Gyodo! You deal with the imperials!
As expected, the Sekiseigumi have caught our scent. Since fighting them is out of the question, we'll have to wind our way back to the Ruby Bazaar, evading their patrols as we go.
If they find you, use these smoke bombs to make your escape!
Split up and head for the Ruby Bazaar! And remember: under no circumstances must you engage the Sekiseigumi!
