Elene'shpya!?
I'm looking for Cahciua! Where is she?
Wh-What's this all of a sudden? Who's Cahciua?
This...this cannot be...
The memories of the departed...are taken away...
No...
Elene'shpya, where are you? The others will be here soon, so hurry back, won't you?
Do you hear me? Say something, would you?
As many Endless as those who have died... So where are they? And how have they been “living” up until now?
We'll have to ask Cahciua what she knows. And if she's been hiding things from us, we need to know why.
Why are you all making those serious faces...?
Although the mood became a tad subdued at the end, I thoroughly enjoyed our repast together!
We did too, Otis. To hear about the Endless was something of a shock, but we likewise enjoyed your company.
Above all, I'm glad that you and I could talk, Gulool Ja. We're going to get along great, I just know it!
You...you think so?
Hahaha! I'm happy for you, my boy!
Now then, I presume you will be returning to Everkeep. Permit me to accompany you at least a part of the way.
About Sphene...
It doesn't matter to me if she's an Endless. Whether she's “alive” like you and me or not.
I've seen enough to know that she has a good heart.
What worries me is the burden she bears. We still don't know what it is.
I expect there are things she can't tell us. Not with Zoraal Ja watching. But at the very least, I'd like to know what the Endless are to her.
...Sorry, I didn't mean to delay us. I just felt the urge to share my thoughts with you.
Oh, on the way back, let's make a quick stop at the driftdowns. I want to tell Taapu how it went.
Gods, but that yam stew was good...
Ah, you are returned. Were you able to find Gulool Ja?
We were thanks to you. All's well with the boy.
I'm relieved to hear that.
And to know that he has family who worries for him. Gulool Ja too must be glad.
Heh, I hope so. I'll try not to rush or force anything, though. It's for him to decide what I am to him.
My, what a pleasant surprise it is to meet you in these parts.
Sphene! What are you doing here?
Visiting my people. Are you doing the same, perchance?
I suppose we are, yes...
Listen, there's something we'd like to talk to you about. Could we have a word in private?
...So you know about the Endless.
While we may not discuss it openly, my people will have surely noticed that I haven't changed for hundreds of years. I've made no attempt to conceal my nature.
If I may ask, though, who was it that told you about the Endless? Only a few should be familiar with the concept.
I'm afraid I can't say...
I bear no ill will towards this mystery individual, lest that be your concern. I'm merely curious.
Tell me, Sphene. You care for your people, that much is plain. And I assume you care for the Endless too.
Earlier, in Everkeep, there was something that you wanted to tell us. Was it to do with them?
The Endless are as dear to me as my living citizens. They are as much my family.
But they can only be sustained by meeting certain exacting requirements. Thus far we've managed to do so, but should more people die, I fear we would be pushed beyond our limit.
Their preservation demands vast amounts of energy...
Energy? I don't understand the workings of it all, but is there something we can do to help?
Then...
Would you be willing to become Alexandrian citizens?
Wh-What!? I have my nation─my people─to protect. I can't just become Alexandrian...
Indeed...I suppose you cannot.
First you tell us to make peace, then you tell us to go home... What exactly is it that you want?
The same as you, of course. To protect my people.
That...I cannot say. I do not ask that you understand or like me. But I wish...
I wish we had been born on the same side of it.
Hey, what do you mean by that? Wait! Sphene!
Damn it...
Well, I think we've kept everyone waiting long enough. Let's continue on to Everkeep.
And let's not tell Otis about our conversation with Sphene. I don't want to risk causing him pain.
Thank you for stopping by to share the news. It gladdens me to know that Gulool Ja is in good hands.
Eating together was fun. I hope we can do it again.
I've gone ahead and apologized for us.
A lot has happened, but the important thing is Gulool Ja is safe and well. Cahciua has been worried, so let's hurry back.
Why don't you come with us? You might get to see Sphene.
Ah. 'Tis a magnanimous and much appreciated offer, but I must decline.
A part of me longs for an audience with Her Majesty, it is true. Yet though it be in my previous life, I failed to protect my queen.
I couldn't bear to show my face before her...and such an uncomely one besides!
Alright. If that's how you feel, we won't force you.
But rest assured we'll visit with Gulool Ja, and we hope you'll cook for us again.
'Twould be my pleasure. You are welcome to bring other comrades, should you so desire. The more the merrier!
I've been looking all over for you!
Nostalgia, was it? What's the matter?
It's Zoraal Ja! He marches to Vanguard!
So he's done waiting... But why weren't we alerted sooner?
Our transmissions are being jammed. The lookouts couldn't get through to us.
Wayakkwe is at Vanguard too, but I can't reach her... Oh, what are we to do?
Stay calm. Cahciua has yet to be alerted, yes? Take word to the Backroom as fast as you can.
Our linkpearls may still work. I'll try contacting those in Tuliyollal.
Otis─I need you to keep Gulool Ja safe.
You needn't ask.
I want to go with you!
Absolutely not. A battle's no place for you.
Gulool Ja, the people of the outskirts must be evacuated. For this crucial task, I require your assistance.
Remember: when battle is at hand, anything can happen. Caution is as valuable as any blade.
Yes, sir!
I managed to get hold of Alphinaud. He'll inform Koana.
Good. How's the situation in Tuliyollal?
There's nothing to worry about...or so my brother assured me. With such short notice, though, I doubt they'll be fully prepared.
They'll be ready, I'm sure of it. The Vow of Reason is not to be underestimated.
I'm coming, Zoraal Ja...and we will finish this once and for all!
Lamaty'i is right. Let's have faith in everyone and do what we can.
This is the moment of truth. We have to hold Zoraal Ja here.
And I know exactly how to do that!
Before we get going, I have a request to make of you.
When we confront Zoraal Ja, you must let me face him alone.
What!? No, that's far too dangerous! Why put you at such risk if we don't have to?
We have two priorities.
The first is to hold Zoraal Ja within the dome and protect Tuliyollal.
The second is to free Wayakkwe if she's been captured.
To make sure we succeed, I need to play the worthy foe for Zoraal Ja.
If I come at him with help, he'll likely lose interest and proceed with his attack on the city. That's why it needs to be a duel.
Even if Tuliyollal is better prepared this time, it's true that it would be best to avoid another battle. And failing that, we might at least weaken Zoraal Ja...
Rest assured I'm not going into this without a strategy. Our time in the dome has given us invaluable insights into Alexandrian culture.
The use of regulators, for one. The secret to Zoraal Ja's strength.
Then you mean to...
That's right. If I destroy his regulator, he'll be unable to draw upon souls. We'll see how much he wants a duel after that.
So, will you leave Zoraal Ja to me?
Thank you, Forename!
It's true that this is your fight, and how you choose to handle it is your decision.
But if we see you struggling, or Zoraal Ja attempts to call upon his minions, we will go to your aid!
Heh, fair enough! Knowing you'll be there, I can give it my all.
Together with Koana, I'll keep Tuliyollal safe!
Zoraal Ja!
H-Hello!
You disappoint me, Wuk Lamat. We are foes, yet you had my admiration for defeating Father and claiming the throne.
But instead of coming for me, you gallivant with the resistance. Do I intimidate you?
I am here, Brother. I did not run, nor hide. I have come to kill you.
Let her go. Your quarrel is with me.
And will you settle it one-on-one? Or call upon all and sundry yet again?
Not that it would make any difference.
No. Like Papa did, I'll face you alone.
Really? You believe you stand a chance? Have you forgotten how it ended for Father?
I remember you couldn't win without relying on other people's souls. Alone I may be weak, but so are you!
So be it. Do not regret your decision.
Release her.
Oh, thank you!
I thought I was done for...
No you don't!
Had you let her die, you could have dealt me a telling blow. Your compassion will be the end of you.
I'm not letting anyone else die!
And you─you will never surpass Papa!
But I have. With these very hands I slew him.
His body may be gone, but his spirit lives on in us!
The Yok Huy's delusion is catching, I see.
It's no delusion. Papa's love for Tuliyollal gives me strength even now!
Come─let's get this over with! For my people and Sphene's!
How gullible you are. All of this is Sphene's doing.
Her objective is to harvest all life outside the barrier. Our interests happened to align, hence our alliance.
Liar! Sphene would never do that!
The King of Resolve speaks the truth.
How did she─!?
The attack on Tural was no less my desire than Zoraal Ja's.
You said you wanted none of this. It was a farce from the very start!
Yes. I used you.
So it was all just a lie, then? What you said about loving your people as family, about wanting to see them smile...
I do this for them!
For what it's worth, I'm sorry I deceived you. But I had no choice.
If I'm to save my people, I must take the lives of yours!
Behold, Wuk Lamat! The benevolent Queen Sphene.
An illusion that orchestrated a massacre.
Endless or machine, or whatever you are now, you bear the memories of the person you once were! You should still have a heart!
When you speak of slaughtering my people, do you feel nothing?
Nothing is dearer to me than my people. It matters not whether they are living or Endless.
As queen, I will do anything to protect them!
If it were you, could you have found another way? With your strength, could you have held fast to that which is dear without sacrifice?
What exactly do you seek to do? What are you protecting your people from?
You waste your words. There is no turning back.
Is this the strength that the love of Tuliyollal lends you?
A weak ruler walks a path of ruin. Tell me─which of us is worthy of their throne?
I already know...it will never be you!
As long as you think only of yourself, you'll never be worthy! You'll never surpass Father─or me!
You can't rely on souls anymore. It's over.
Don't think you've won yet. Oh no, far from it.
Give the order to the fleet: raze Tuliyollal to the ground and harvest every last soul!
It is over─for Tuliyollal. Your works, your people─all will be ash before the day is done.
Don't tell me you've forgotten? I'm not the only Dawnservant.
Th-They're coming!
Well come on then, you tin bastards!
If I didn't know better, I'd say you're enjoying yourself.
I'm Hhetsarro. Nothing gets a hunter's blood pumping like a little danger.
Well now, it seems we have that in common. I haven't felt this alive in a good while.
That's the spirit! We promised Vow Koana we'd deliver him a mountain of scrap─and I'm not about to let these hollow men make a liar out of me!
Hey, kid. The ones below are yours.
You got it!
Wait... What do you mean “below”?
<whistle>
Don't see that every day!
Hardly sporting. And this despite our best efforts to thin the enemy ranks.
While it's not quite what we had planned, I'm glad we chose to remain in Tural.
As am I. 'Twas an unexpected but welcome opportunity to join in the defense of this realm.
And to his credit, Koana did ask very nicely. Still, it's a pity his brother had to delay our pleasure jaunt. But business always comes first.
Damn it! Come no closer, you bastards!
Gehehehe!
That was a near thing. Are you all right?
Y-You...
Saved your life? Yes, I know. Don't squander it!
I never thought you of all people would come to my rescue, Bakool Ja Ja. Thank you.
Still rings odd in my ears, the “thank you”s...
But I could get used to it.
Gehehehe!
Right, we're not done yet!
We're holdin' our own against their infantry, but what of that monstrosity and its escort?
If they start bombardin' us with cannon fire, we'll have no means of fightin' back!
Worry not, we have a countermeasure.
A bleedin' dragon!?
What in the Navigator's name is it doin' here?
Tuliyollal has entered into an alliance with Radz-at-Han. A wise and timely decision on Vow Koana's part.
Right in the nick... Tuliyollal shall never forget this debt.
<tiny roar>
We will hold out, Lamaty'i.
So keep your eyes forward and do what only you can do.
Finish this, and return home─safe and sound.
