By Rhalgr... Without my realizing it, the fire of my resolve had grown dim. But thanks to you, it burns red-hot once more! If needs be, I shall lay down my life to secure victory for Eorzea!
You have rekindled the flames of courage that burn within our brave men and women's hearts, and for this, I thank you.
And now, the time for battle is nigh. We must march forth with no worries or regrets.
General Raubahn awaits you at Castrum Meridianum. The battle will not be an easy one, but I trust that you are up to the task. Godsspeed, Captain Surname!
Our hero returns. I trust that your visit has done much to lift the spirits of our garrison on the eve of our greatest battle yet.
Time is of the essence. Let us commence the briefing at once.
Brothers and sisters of the Alliance! I would share with you glad tidings!
Doubtless spurred on by news of the siege of Castrum Oriens, the Maelstrom has struck a double blow! Castrum Occidens and Castrum Marinum are now under blockade!
Phase two of Operation Archon is a success!
Reports tell us that the Garleans offered fierce resistance─but that the Admiral yielded them not one ilm.
With Occidens, Marinum, and Oriens thus suppressed, the third phase may begin in earnest!
Even as we speak, the Order of the Twin Adder moves to block the railway leading hither from Castrum Centri. And that can mean but one thing...
The hour is come to strike at the heart of the Garlean invasion force!
...Castrum Meridianum, the den of the Black Wolf!
My fellow Eorzeans. I am Minfilia, Mistress of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.
There exist myriad barriers that divide us─those of race and nation, language and creed, to name but a few.
Such barriers serve to isolate us from our neighbors...yet they also serve to define who we are. Shorn of them, there would be little to distinguish one from another, and the rich variety of our lives would give way to sterile orthodoxy.
These barriers can never truly be broken down, of course─not so long as there is liberty in the world─but they can be transcended!
Verily, we do so now in coming together for this grand endeavor, to fight side by side in defense of our shared home!
Before me stands the adventurer Forename Surname. You all know her as the woman who will lead the unit tasked with destroying the Ultima Weapon.
We Scions know a different Forename, however. We know her as a dear friend who has endured untold hardship on our behalf─a true hero who has ever blazed a path for us to follow. And why do I tell you this? I tell you, friends, because it is time for us to blaze a path for her!
Our objective is to wreak such havoc outside the walls of Meridianum as to afford Forename and her comrades the time they need to disable the magitek field generator within.
With the path thus cleared, we may finally turn our minds to the true goal of this operation─the destruction of the Ultima Weapon! All troops, prepare for battle!
I fear I can't accompany you this time. The unenviable task of facilitating communications between our forces has been entrusted to the Ironworks, you see. Know, though, that I will be praying for your safe return.
See that you come back to us, my friend. May the Crystal bless you and keep you.
We will suffer the Black Wolf to prowl our lands no more! Let us teach the hunter what it is to be hunted!
Forward, comrades! For Eorzea!
FOR EORZEA!
Go now, Forename, and bring us one step closer to the dawn!
