Hm? So yer the 'venturer Sark Malark sent, are ye? I've been waitin' for ye. Now let's see what ye got for me.
...I see. Ah, yes─I reckon I can hammer these back into shape for ye.
After all, I owe yer friend Sark Malark a favor or two. Took good care of ol' Eginolf back in the days before I fell in with old Rowena, he did.
Did ye know he's the son of one o' the wealthiest families in the sultanate? Wouldn't expect someone like that to end up in the life he did, but I s'pose he always felt the 'venturer's life callin' him.
...But here I go blabberin' on when there's work to be done. Just hold yer horsebirds for a moment or two and the great Eginolf will have yer gear lookin' good as new.
...And there we have it. Won't do ye much good in battle, mind ye, but from what I hear, that's not yer priority anyhow.
Do send Sark Malark my regards, will ye?
Have you had the uniforms and helms repaired?
Yes, these will serve beautifully. The great Eginolf never fails to impress. The quality of these repairs would fool even a legatus.
Thus equipped, you should not have any trouble blending in amongst imperial forces.
Lest you fear that the Garleans might detect your “foreignness,” foreigners in fact form the greater part of the Garlean invasion force in Eorzea.
You see, when the Empire subjugates new territory, it assimilates the people of that land into its armed forces. In turn, these conscripted forces are sent to subjugate faraway lands. In this way, Garlemald nips rebellion in the bud and expands its territory in one fell stroke.
With that, my part in your mission is done. I am full glad to have been of assistance to your cause.
...Hm? Why would I, a wealthy merchant, wish to help you? I know not where you heard such a tale, but believe me when I say that I am but another humble adventurer, one who desires only to act in the best interests of the realm.
Good work gettin' them imperial duds. You'll be pleased to hear I ain't been idle myself. It took me long enough, but I've finally hatched a plan to get us a suit o' magitek armor.
Now, from what I've seen, Castrum Centri deploys a reaper for most of its patrols.
Trouble is, the patrols 'emselves are irregular─meanin' random routes an' random deployments─an' hardly any of 'em come anywhere near Revenant's Toll.
So, hopin' to coax the imperials out o' their shells, I took the liberty o' feedin' 'em a bit o' the old false intelligence─told 'em insurgents had designs on their stronghold.
'Tain't far from the truth, now I come to think of it. Anyroad, we should start seein' more patrols than we have up till now.
What you need to do is approach one o' these patrols, dressed up in your shiny tin suit, an' alert 'em to the enemy's presence.
Havin' done that, you'll want to lure 'em as near to Revenant's Toll as you can. Like as not, though, they'll be wary o' venturin' far from their own walls.
If they do need a bit of extra encouragement, use this smoke signal here, filched fresh from an imperial scout. They'll come runnin' when they see that. An' when the cavalry arrives, you hit 'em hard an' make off with their reaper─simple as that.
If I ain't mistaken, there's a patrol sweepin' the perimeter right now, so run along, eh? Oh, an' don't forget to salute!
One of our covert operatives, are you? Carry on, soldier....Hm? Insurgents gathering to the east, you say?
Judging by your description, they are well beyond the perimeter...but I will not have it said that I was remiss. You, return to the scene and keep an eye on those insurgents. Should aught go awry, use your smoke signal to call us.
I hope you don't mind my joining. Seeing as we're seizing advanced weaponry, I thought it best to be on hand.
Ah, there she is.
This is the place...but where is the enemy?
