The Ladder is the only way up and down the cliff, but it hasn't moved in a long time.
In the old days, it was operated by the mining folk who lived at the top.
But after the Flood it saw less and less use, and when Lord Vauthry took control, it was abandoned altogether.
So we somehow need to get the Ladder working again?
It moves by means of a Talos, if that's any help. But good luck repairing that...
...Talos? Did someone say Talos!?
You know all about them, don't you, dearest! If anyone can get this lift moving, it's you!
Um...well...perhaps. B-B-But see here─
Oh, yes! If you want the golem restored, you may leave it to my husband!
For he happens to be the heir to Daedalus Stoneworks, foremost makers of Talos, whose contracts include the renowned mining venture of Amh Araeng!
It's... Well, i-i-it's been years and years since I had anything to do with it! I-I can't just pick up a hammer and set to work!
You...you can't?
N-No, th-th-that's not what I─ I-It's just, I─
...All right, I will take a look at the Talos, but beyond that, I make no promises!
Those with strong backs, come with me. I'll need help dragging the damned thing out of the storehouse...
Well done, Brother.
Come, my friend. We have work to do!
The Ladder is situated to the north and west of Wright. Let us make our way there, Forename.
Forename, dost thou see yonder pair of Talos?
For a blessing, they were found to be in good repair. Master Chai prepareth to activate them as we speak.
With our arcane knowledge, Y'shtola and I will serve as his assistants. At the appointed hour, we shall imbue the golems with aether.
Others, meanwhile, attend to the Ladder itself, which hath too long lain neglected. Extensive maintenance will be needed ere it can move again, as well as myriad materials with which to perform it.
If thou art willing, we would prevail upon thee to procure lumber.
My thanks, Forename. Directly to the south thou wilt find a dry dock─Venmont Yards. Pray see if thou canst persuade the folk there to part with some lumber for our cause.
