...Louisoix Leveilleur was a remarkable man. Wise beyond mortal measure. Would that I had met him prior to his passing.
An Ascian, here!? How─!?
How readily you see. You are indeed gifted, Antecedent.
But you... You are not like the others. Your robes...
Gifted─but ignorant. Yet I shall not judge you harshly. The fault lies with your forebears. It has been...millennia.
Mine are the robes of an emissary. Unlike he who came before, I have no quarrel with you.
He who─ You speak of Lahabrea?
Lahabrea is a warrior. He fought. He fell.
He may yet learn from his mistakes.
Then he...he is still...
Come. I only confirm that which you already knew.
There is no cessation, no oblivion. Only expulsion.
You... What are...?
We're ready when you are, my lady! If there's nothing else...
...Is something the matter?
Ah...I feel the same way. After everything that's happened here, it feels strange to leave. But I'm sure we'll soon get used to Revenant's Toll.
Well...I'll let you say your good-byes. Take as long as you like, my lady. We shall depart whenever you're ready.
It is only to be expected. She lacks the gift and the knowledge both. To her, we are indistinct.
I...I do not understand.
Shadowless, fleshless, formless... What truth there is in each tale is diluted by time and telling.
Knowledge dictates expectation, and expectation colors perception. Thus did she perceive naught.
So it is with all but a chosen few. Even you, when young, could not yet see with eyes unclouded.
You know nothing about me. Nothing.
The gift grants you clarity; it grants you focus. With it, you may in time come to see us as we are, rather than this crude approximation.
Lahabrea did not think so highly of the Echo.
Lahabrea is wrong about a great many things. The Echo is indeed a gift─albeit one you have yet to master.
And if we did?
There would be no strife between our peoples─for we would be of one mind.
I leave, as I came, in peace, Antecedent. May we meet again as friends.
Wait! Stay where you are!
Aaaaaahhh!
Mayhap I was indelicate... 'Tis a mercy She shields Her children from His grace with such resolve.
Was it also by Her hand that you survived the Ardor, I wonder?
<groan> I...I take it there is no need to explain.
Save your concern. He did me no lasting harm. Whatever his intention was, it was not to kill.
I heard a cry! What happened!? Are you all right?
You look faint─do you need to lie down? I could fetch you a flask of my special tonic─
Urianger, send word to the Students of Baldesion. Tell them to scour the archives─the forbidden tomes in particular.
If there is any reference to an Ascian robed in white, however oblique, I would know of it.
...An Ascian, my lady? Was that what gave you cause to cry out?
I did but moments ago glimpse a figure clad in white set forth from the Waking Sands. Yet Ascians are wont to employ teleportation magicks─why would one be so brazen?
I know not and care not. Find him, Forename! Turn every stone in Vesper Bay if you have to!
Pray attend me, Tataru.
I am told that you are the Warrior of Light. But I would know for myself.
I shall walk north, and you may choose to follow.
Know, however, that you will be waylaid if you do─you may even perish. Should you survive, we shall speak anon.
Remarkable. Truly remarkable. I thank you for granting me this indulgence.
None save she who bested Lahabrea could endure such an examination.
Have the laws of man grown so twisted in my absence that it is now permitted to lay hands upon an emissary?
You bore witness to my audience with the Antecedent, did you not? Then you know I acted only in self-defense.
I realize the same cannot be said of Lahabrea. Even amongst his brethren, he is considered...unique. Nevertheless, I cannot wholly condemn his misdeeds, for through them we discovered you─one so strong in the gift that she could cast us out.
Your Mother favors you still, that much is plain. But surely you must feel it? Her influence wanes, and Her strength shall soon be spent.
These lands, these people, this world─all shall soon change.
As it was, so shall it be again. As it should always have been.
Doubt my claims and question my motives if you will.
Only believe me when I say this...
I am Elidibus, emissary─bearer of the word of the one true god. And we shall meet again.
Thank the gods you've returned, Forename! After you left, I began to worry that I might have sent you to your doom. I take it our visitor proved elusive?
Beg pardon? He was waiting for you!? What did you do? What did he say?
"As it was, so shall it be again“? ...Of when does he speak? And of what, exactly?
The words of this Elidibus portend much but reveal nothing─save perhaps a measure of disdain for Lahabrea.
<sigh> I had hoped for answers, but it seems I shall have to be content with a wealth of additional questions.
Let us set aside the matter of this Ascian until after we have completed our move to the Rising Stones. There is but one final favor I would ask of you before I depart.
I believe I mentioned before that my father was a member of the Ala Mhigan Resistance. The truth, however, is more complicated than that.
As far as the Empire knew, he was their spy. He maintained the deception for nigh on half a decade, furnishing the Resistance with vital imperial secrets while feeding his paymasters subtly conceived misinformation.
When he died some fifteen years ago, my father left behind his journal, which I have closely guarded ever since. It contains every shred of information he and his agents could steal on what they believed to be the single greatest threat to Eorzea: the primals.
Its wisdom has guided me through the years, though there is much within I still do not understand...
It is my hope that Urianger will fare better.
Tell him to treat it with care. It is all I have left of my father.
I thought thee departed. To what end dost thou linger?
The father's final bequest...the daughter's lifelong labor.
It is no small thing to surrender such a cherished memento. Well can I imagine the Antecedent's pain. Upon mine honor, I swear to spare no effort in the study of these materials, lest my lady's sacrifice be in vain.
Forename, this is Minfilia.
Forgive me, but I could wait no longer─I have departed for the Rising Stones.
If...if you have yet to...
...Once you have given the journal to Urianger, I bid you come to the Seventh Heaven in Revenant's Toll. Tataru will be there to show you inside our new headquarters.
Assuming you have already attuned to it, you may wish to make use of our new aetheryte in Revenant's Toll. After all, it is right on our doorstep!
Oh, Forename! You're here! Good, good. We were all wondering when you'd show up!
As I was just telling your restive receptionist here, I'm pleased to inform you that all the documents have been prepared and all signatures signed. The Rising Stones is officially yours!
Splendid! From this day forward, I will spare no effort in seeing that it is as welcoming and comfortable a home for us as the Waking Sands ever was!
That said, this is all somewhat intimidating, is it not? So many unfamiliar places, and unfamiliar faces...
Most of the men and women you see around you here in Revenant's Toll are adventurers who come and go as they wish. I daresay that should make it easier for you to go about your business here.
And it shouldn't hurt that Forename here has already made something of a name for herself here. Isn't that so, Forename?
Why, that's wonderful to hear! Rest assured that this receptionist will work just as hard to see that our efforts do not skip a beat despite the relocation.
And with that, Forename, I do believe it's time you officially announced your presence to everyone inside.
The Antecedent and the others will surely be overjoyed to see you.
Well, it is certainly spacious.
Today marks a new beginning for the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, for today we declare our independence.
We shall henceforth be beholden to no nation, but serve all of Eorzea's people, proudly and openly.
But this does not mean that we will sever our ties to the Eorzean Alliance. On the contrary, the Antecedent and I shall endeavor to strengthen them. Rest assured, however, that we shall not permit political considerations to influence our decisions.
Our identity remains unchanged, as does our cause. We are the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, and our single purpose is to safeguard the future of Eorzea.
