But the conquering emperor is now an old man of four score winters. His health is failing, and he has no clear successor. Like as not, this is why the Garleans have been quiet of late.
But the XIVth Imperial Legion is still entrenched within our borders.
And their commander, Legatus Gaius van Baelsar, has long harbored ambitions of conquest.
Were he to strike now, I fear we would fall like so many others before us. And not only Ul'dah, but Gridania and Limsa Lominsa as well.
For the Calamity brought the lot of us to our knees, and we've yet to get up. We barely have the strength to stand against the beast tribes, never mind the primals they mean to summon.
We are a realm divided, adventurer. An alliance in name only.
But the wolf cares not for the plight of its prey.
The Garleans stir, and the Elder Seedseer would not let it go unnoticed.
All other concerns pale in comparison to the Empire─even the beast tribes and their bloody primals.
We must stand united once more, that much is clear. And if we're to do so, we must remember the cause which last brought us together. Merlwyb will have her memorial.
We will honor the memory of the fallen. We will remind the people what their brothers and sisters fought and died for.
Shall I inform the sultana and the Syndicate?
I will speak with Her Grace myself.
Very good, sir.
The Admiral will have my reply anon.
My thanks to you, adventurer.
Ah, my lady envoy. I trust your stay in the sultanate has been pleasant. Now, if you do not mind my asking, do you perchance have plans to visit Limsa Lominsa in the near future? If so, I have information that may be of interest to you.
I once accompanied the Flame General on an official visit to the seaside city-state, during which time I became acquainted with Baderon, the proprietor of the Drowning Wench. Well, the man sent word just now that he has a job for a capable adventurer.
I can think of none with better credentials than you. Baderon would doubtless be pleased were you to offer him your services.
Welcome to the Drownin' Wench! Sit wherever ye like, lass. I'll be with ye in a─
Well, well, if it ain't the one an' only Forename Surname!
I was told a distinguished 'venturer might be reportin' fer duty. Fancy that 'venturer bein' you, eh!?
Just so yer fairly warned, though, this ain't no job fer the faint of 'eart. Things're liable to get downright bleedin' 'airy. But if ye think yer still interested, let me know, an' I'll fill ye in on the details.
