If I shift the angle just the teensiest bit, I bet I can triple the cuteness factor! No, quadruple it!
Whoa!
Erm...who might you be?
Oooh, Astrid asked you to check on me? Well, isn't that sweet of you! It's a pleasure to make your acquaintance, Forename!
Oh, it's you! What brings you here, Forename?
Ah, so Astrid asked you to check on me! I appreciate you coming on her behalf.
I suppose you're wondering what I've been practicing here, so far away from prying eyes...
Patience, my friend, patience! If you truly wish to see what I've been cooking up, pray come to Mih Khetto's Amphitheatre!
I knew you wouldn't be able to resist!
You brought her back as promised! Thank you, Forename.
She intends to demonstrate her─what did she call it? Right, “love heart” on stage in just a moment. You can be part of her very first audience!
That was, erm, yes...cute! So this is what you've been working on!
The Gridanians are a reserved people who have long been reluctant to openly express their feelings to one another.
Yet I believe it is of utmost importance that we open our hearts to those we hold dear─in this season of love most of all. Now is the time for everyone to shed their fears and wear their affections on their sleeve!
That's what inspired me to come up with the love heart. I can only hope this simple expression is enough to motivate people to act!
Well it certainly appears to have made an impression! Navigating matters of love is oft a nerve-racking task even for the boldest of us. Yet with this gesture, I believe you've given the townsfolk the perfect means to convey their feelings!
Emilie, I encourage you to go about the city and perform the pose before any you might find floundering in the ocean of love. Go on and ignite the passion in their hearts!
Leave it to me!
Would you mind lending a hand as well, Forename? As an adventurer, I'm sure you've touched the hearts of many. There are doubtless few more qualified to guide others in pursuing─and realizing─their passion!
Wonderful! Now, before we set forth, I would ask you to remain on the stage for a while so we can judge your pose. Considering the import of our mission, I'm afraid we can't leave until it is flawless.
My, I am equal amounts impressed and envious that you managed to perfect the gesture in so short a time! It took me ages just to get the hands right...
Ideally, I would like you both to get started immediately, yet I do wish we had another emissary...
