Now, now, be reasonable, Brother. What manner of fool would say no when a famous hero offered to do his work?
Hold your tongues! By the Fury...the two of you will conduct yourselves with dignity befitting your station and show Mistress Surname the respect she deserves!
This is the woman who slew Gaius van Baelsar and some half-dozen primals besides! She is not here to steal your glory or serve as your errand girl!
...If you can pardon them their impropriety, Mistress Surname, I should be much obliged if you would lend my sons a helping hand.
My thanks. Fury willing, they may even learn something from you.
'Twould seem we shall not want for employment over the coming days─though that was never in doubt.
Our host's initial reluctance to accept our offer of aid was solely for appearance's sake. In truth, he is glad of this opportunity to put us to work.
By granting us patronage, House Fortemps has taken a tremendous risk. Until we demonstrate our worth to Ishgard at large, the count will face considerable opposition from his peers in matters great and small.
And so he would have us publicly serve Ishgard─whilst simultaneously keeping his sons in check.
'Tis an arrangement we may benefit from in unexpected ways. My own duties may feasibly bring me into contact with people who know something of our missing comrades.
And as you go about helping our two lords with their various responsibilities, you will inevitably make new acquaintances in Ishgard, mayhap even new allies. Yes...the more I think on it, the more confident I am that by furthering their goals, we shall further our own.
Shall we be off then, old girl?
Ah, but where are my manners. Emmanellain de Fortemps, second son of Count Edmont de Fortemps─trueborn, that is.
Yes, yes─I know what you're thinking, and you are absolutely right. What ill fortune to be born second in a society where the eldest inherits all.
Oh, my brother would never cut me off, 'tis true, but who could be satisfied subsisting on a meager allowance, forever overshadowed by his sibling? Not I, old girl, not I!
Which is why I need your help to ensure that this business in the Sea of Clouds goes swimmingly, so that the tales of my great deeds can win me a place in the people's hearts─or better yet, raise me higher in their estimations than Artoirel! Ambitious, I grant you, but then I do have a legendary hero to do my bidding! Hah hah hah!
Oh, don't look at me that way! I jest, I jest! Anyway, we are to aid the good men and women of House Haillenarte. They have ever been steadfast friends to our house─though they've fallen on hard times since the Calamity, poor blighters.
As for what precisely we will be doing, well... What fun would it be if I told you everything in advance?
Just come along with me to the airship landing. We'll need to take the airship to Camp Cloudtop.
