Honored hero! You seek passage across the One River?
Are you quite certain you would not prefer to stay awhile longer? There are sure to be festivities─at which you would be the guest of honor, like as not.
Very well. There are other ways in which we might celebrate─by rejoining the fight for freedom in Gyr Abania, for one.
Short though our time here has been, we have all come to regard this land and her people as our own, I think. But we have done that which we came here to do.
Word of Doma's liberation will soon spread throughout the Empire, and we must seize this opportunity to rekindle the fires of liberation in the West.
We dare not allow the imperials a moment's respite, lest they march on Doma again. For the sake of all concerned, we should leave immediately.
Did I hear you right? You are leaving?
I'm afraid so. We've got our own battle to fight. What about you? Will you be heading back to the Steppe?
Yes. The war here is ended, and there is no cause to remain. The Oronir and Dotharl have already withdrawn.
I will follow them anon, but I wished to bid you farewell first.
The Blue, too, must return to their homes, but we will be back. Doma has need of merchants and builders, and we are eager to offer our services!
And just like that, our grand fellowship is broken? Without ceremony or pomp, you steal off into the dark?
No matter. We have plenty to be getting on with. Places to be, people to rob, and so on. And the captain never was one for mingling.
I am a pirate. Give me a song at the tavern, and I will be happy. Hobnobbing with Lord Hien? Nay.
<sigh> No taste for the finer things...
In any event, we need not part ways here. If you are for Kugane, we would be happy to take you. Her waters have always been...fruitful.
I wish you well on your journey, my friends. May you ever walk in crimson.
Thank you, Cirina. For everything.
May the kami speed you on your way! Until we meet again!
Naught remains undone? You are ready to depart?
Oh? I thought matters in your homeland pressing. Mayhap I was mistaken.
To Kugane, then...
Have everything? Good. We will need to weigh anchor before the Sekiseigumi arrive.
...From the bottom of my heart, I thank you for what you did. Give my regards to the Ul'dahn.
I informed Tataru of our coming. She and Hancock should be waiting for us in the Ruby Bazaar.
Then it is here we part ways. Best of luck to you and yours in your...piratical endeavors, I suppose.
Greetings, honored madam. Will you be entering the Ruby Bazaar offices?
Welcome back, everyone, and congratulations on a job well done!
It is a pleasure as ever to see your smiling face, Tataru. Less so yours, Hancock, though Rasho and I are sincerely grateful for your assistance.
The pleasure was all mine, Master Alphinaud. I assure you.
Anyway, you will be glad to hear that I have already chartered passage for you back to Limsa Lominsa.
The ship is to leave port this very day, but the captain has agreed to wait until the four of you have boarded.
The four of us? You mean to stay here in Kugane?
Yes. I gave it some thought, and I realized that even with Doma free, there's still a need for a woman in the middle. Maybe even more than before, considering all the friends and alliances you made.
As I told her many times before, I would be more than willing to assist you─
And as I told you many times before, I am not about to let you worm your way into our affairs and exploit our connections for your personal gain!
<sigh> Must you always presume the worst?
So there you have it. I will remain here for now. You needn't worry─I'm a regular at the hostelry and a half-dozen other local institutions. Everyone loves me!
So go, go! Don't let me keep you. Buy your supplies and souvenirs while you still can!
When you've finished, make haste to the docks. Pier number two, to be precise. I'll be waiting for you there!
First to arrive, as always. Hopefully the others will not be far behind...
Ah, there you are! All packed and ready to go?
To the best of my knowledge, yes. Apologies for the wait. The task of tying up loose ends invariably takes longer than one allows. Happily, however, all now seems to be in order.
Then there's nothing left to do but to board the ship! Do try and enjoy the journey, won't you? It may be your last chance to rest for a while!
That would depend on the good captain's choice of route.
As ever, Tataru, I pray you take all due precautions while making your inquiries. Better to avoid the local authorities altogether than risk a repeat of our Ishgardian episode.
And what sordid episode is this, pray tell?
N-naught to speak of, I assure you!
You there! Hold that ship!
What are you two doing here? Shouldn't you be in Doma?
Shouldn't you? You left with nary a word! I half-wondered if I had done something to offend.
Upon learning that you had departed for Kugane, we immediately resolved to give chase. Our comrades can manage affairs in our absence, and it seemed the least we could do.
You mean you came all this way just to say good-bye?
That too, aye, but there was something else I felt I had to say.
You helped us win our freedom, and for that I cannot thank you enough.
Accordingly, after we have established an interim government and so forth, I think it only meet that we repay the favor by dispatching our own forces to Eorzea. If you would have us.
We harbored no expectations of such generous aid...and as there is no telling when the Empire might strike back at you, would it not be wiser to concentrate your resources on the defense of Doma?
I had a mind to pursue a more aggressive defense. To wit, we will send forth shinobi to provinces far and wide to spread word of our victory, that we might inspire others to take up arms as we did.
Even the Empire has its limits. If the Garleans cannot be certain where and when the next rebellion will take place, how can they commit another force to Doma?
And besides...so long as this debt remains unpaid, how am I to face myself? And Gosetsu?
As you wish. I will relay your offer to the Eorzean Alliance.
All of Doma is counting on you to finish what we have started.
You have it in you, Lyse, to seize the future you want. Never forget.
I won't, Hien─not your words or anything else. Everything that led us here, that will drive us forward─I'll carry it with me, always. And that's a promise.
Hah hah! I will hold you to that!
Go with them to Eorzea. Tell their people of our triumph, and of our pledge to stand with them.
By your leave, I shall pave the way for our new alliance.
Hurry up, you lot! The ship's about to weigh anchor!
It seems our time is at an end. Go well, my friends...and may we meet again beneath a western sky.
It seems our time is at an end. Go well, my friends...and may we meet again beneath a western sky.
I always knew that woman was unfit for command...
Aye. When you think of all the resources we poured into that hole.And for what?
The beast yet lives. Mayhap it is time I sharpen my claws.
I wonder, will you walk into my parlor once more...?
Fordola rem Lupis, come at the command of the lord viceroy to present the prisoner taken by the Crania Lupi!
Zenos yae Galvus, I presume?
It's true what they say. You do have the eyes of a monster.A ravenous, insatiable fiend.
You. Give the Butcher your weapon.
My...? Yes, my lord!
My lord, this is─
A reward given in recognition of your service. I trust you will prove more capable than its former owner.
I...I swear I'll not disappoint you, my lord!
Good. Now, silence that mewling little piglet. I would not hear another sound pass her lips...until I strip the fat from her.
Back in Eorzea at last. Ready to pick up where we left off and finish the fight.
We're not who we were when we left. We're stronger and wiser.
So let's do it! Let's get back to Ala Mhigo and defeat Zenos once and for all!
Here we are, home at last. I must say, the journey passed more quickly than I had expected.
That would be due to the absence of otherworldly interference, I expect.
I-I should be glad if we did not speak of that unpleasantness again!
Ahem. But in spite of all that and more, we return better for the experience─and, more importantly, triumphant.
Indeed. And with Doma freed of imperial oppression, it is only right that we turn our thoughts to the plight of Ala Mhigo.
Well, I'm all for that, obviously, but I think you should go and see the refugees at Revenant's Toll before doing anything else. They'll be thrilled to hear what we've accomplished, and it'd sound best coming from you.
...Thank you. I shall do as you suggest.
I see I am not too late.
Admiral! What are you doing here?
The East Aldenard Trading Company informed me of your impending arrival. I have tidings I thought best to share with you in person.
From Gyr Abania?
Aye. The Alliance still holds the Wall, despite several imperial counterattacks. But we have been unable to press further into occupied territory.
Commander Kemp and his men, meanwhile, have made great strides toward rebuilding their depleted ranks. They have even taken it upon themselves to attempt some few operations...with mixed results, I am sorry to say. 'Twas a complication arising from one such venture which moved me to seek you out.
During a mission to transport wounded Resistance fighters to the Rising Stones, Krile Baldesion was taken prisoner.
Krile!? Do they know where she is being held?
They do not. But your comrades were informed at once, and I am told Thancred is in Gyr Abania looking for her as we speak.
How could this have happened...? We must seek out Thancred without delay!
...Nay. Krile taught me better than that. It would be unwise to act without first acquiring a full understanding of the situation...
Thank you for informing us. Tired though we may be, we must make haste to Castrum Oriens. Pray excuse us, Admiral, Lady Yugiri.
There you are! You have heard the news?
In broad strokes from Admiral Bloefhiswyn. What happened?
Krile and a squadron of Resistance fighters were escorting Y'shtola and several other wounded to the Rising Stones for further treatment when they were ambushed by imperial forces.
Arenvald and his men fought valiantly, but in the chaos─
I will make no excuses! We failed to protect her.
Do not be so hard on yourself. You protected Y'shtola and the others, did you not? Tell us about the attack.
It was the Skulls. They knew a path across the Wall we hadn't found. We thought we were safe once we reached the Black Shroud.  We weren't expecting an ambush...
During the fighting, I caught a glimpse of their leader's memories. It was all planned.
The advantage of having a Walker in the field.
I'm not as strong in the Echo as Forename is, of course. Half the time, it's enough to knock me on my arse, like I've taken a dose of concentrated aether...
So you walked in Fordola's memories. What did you see?
A woman promised the world─education, training, citizenship─all that and more if she but sold her soul. A traitor to her people, a pretender to her masters...
...It was Zenos himself that gave the order. Told her to return with Krile Baldesion─alive.
Our agents have been carefully monitoring imperial communications since the attack, but have yet to intercept any transmissions making reference to Krile or her current whereabouts.
If their orders were to bring Krile back alive, we can save her if we move quickly enough.
As you say, time is of the essence, which is why I intend to slip past enemy lines and see what information I can uncover on my own.
In the meantime, it is up to you and our allies to command the imperials' undivided attention. Lots of shouting and explosions and so forth. Keep them distracted, and I will find her.
...Very well. I wish I could do more to aid you, but I understand.
Commander Kemp is on his way to the castrum as we speak for a meeting with General Aldynn. If you hurry, you could find him on the road, and discuss the situation beforehand.
I think Forename and I are going to go and see Conrad like he suggested. You all wait here.
Well, well! Isn't this a pleasant surprise! It fills my heart with joy to see you two hale and healthy.
Welcome home, Lyse, Forename. I'm sure you've heard about Krile by now...
That's why we're here. I'm still not sure what to think about it...but we'll save her. We'll definitely save her somehow.
Aye, I've no doubt that you will. You look stronger for your time in the Far East, lass, and that's good news for Krile.
I'd like to think so...But enough about me─how is everything with you and the Resistance?
Better than when you last saw us, and no mistake. Arenvald's been a godssend. Him and M'naago and all the other youngbloods have achieved so much in such a short time.
We've been blessed to receive the support of the Flames' Ala Mhigan Brigade, who've been instrumental in freeing our countrymen from labor camps throughout Gyr Abania, as well as some political prisoners from the city proper, believe it or not.
Together with the refugees returning from Ul'dah and elsewhere, we've had no shortage of able-bodied men and women eager to join the cause.
I knew you wouldn't stop fighting, even after what happened at the Reach.
Force of habit, I suppose. Though we've come a long way, we still have far to go. But we'll fight for every ilm, and sooner or later, we'll get to Ala Mhigo.
But listen to me prattling on when we should be making haste to Castrum Oriens. There's no point you telling me everything now when you'll only have to say it all again for the Flame General's benefit.
You're right. I'll go on ahead and tell the others that you're not far off.
You have spoken with Thancred, then? Good. Take heart─if anyone can track her down, it's him.
I believe I hear Commander Kemp's party approaching. If you are ready to address Father and the others, let us be about it.
There you are─and there is Commander Kemp, I see. I know you are eager to speak of our next move, but we would first hear more of your last. Tell us of your deeds in Doma.
Pray join me in welcoming our Scion allies, but recently returned from their mission to the Far East. We have been most eager to hear a firsthand account of your time there, eventful as we understand it was.
Very well, allow me...
...Such victories are rarely won without sacrifice. But the prize is worth the price. Doma free, after all these years.
Bloody hells... Flooding their own castle for a better chance at victory...We could learn a thing or two from that lad.
Our agents report a flurry of communications between Garlemald and Ala Mhigo in recent days. 'Tis plain they are in the midst of deliberating their response to the Doman uprising.
Good. Every imperial unit in occupied territory will be on the lookout for civil unrest. The fear of leaving critical locations undefended will make commanders think twice about committing their forces─giving us a chance to seize the initiative.
We have a chance, aye─mayhap the last one we're ever gonna get.While we've done our best to rebuild the Resistance, the imperials have only increased their efforts to root out sympathizers.
If we keep on playing for smaller prizes, it's only a matter of time before they crush us again. And that we won't come back from.
A swift advance seems best for all concerned. Not least poor Mistress Krile.
Then let us waste no more time.The campaign for Ala Mhigan liberation begins now!
Our first objective will be to capture Castellum Velodyna. Take the bridge,and the whole of the Fringes will be ours. From there, we can push easttowards the Peaks.
I name this operation Rhalgr's Beacon. For as Rhalgr once sent His star to guide our ancestors to these lands, so too shall it see us home!
The success of this operation is paramount. So long as the Empire holds Castellum Velodyna, the main host cannot advance.
Zenos knows this, which is why he has ordered Fordola and her men to see to the bridge's defense.
So we'll get to fight the Skulls again...
The Butcher is not to be underestimated. She is decisive, ruthless, and feared by foes and friends alike. But we have a plan to defeat her.
First, we send an Alliance force down the main road, signaling our intention to mount an all-out assault. The garrison will muster their forces and prepare for a protracted battle...
However, they will soon find that we are ill prepared for their counterattack. Our men will begin to break ranks and flee.
I see... Show them your backs and give them a target too tempting not to pursue.
Aye, Fordola is too aggressive not to press the advantage. She will order her men to give chase.
We lure them as far as East End, where the commanders will rally their forces and attempt to hold their ground. If all goes to plan, we should be able to keep the greater part of their garrison occupied.
...Leaving us to tackle the bridge's remaining defenders. Very clever, I'm sure. But what are we to do if the imperials smell a rat and return before we've taken the place?
I don't need you to take Velodyna, Commander Kemp. All I need is for you to fly your flag from its tower.
You mean to trick them into believing that the bridge has fallen!
Aye. We convince them Velodyna is lost, hit them hard with our reinforcements, and watch them go running for the hills.
Then, when the dust has settled, we regroup at the castellum. What say you?
It's a bold plan...but a good one. We'll do it.
In that case, we shall support both the Resistance and the Alliance forces.
Forename, Lyse, Arenvald─I ask that you accompany Commander Kemp. Alisaie and I will remain with the Flame General.
We will return to Rhalgr's Reach and make our preparations. As soon as they are complete, we will join you in the field. Godsspeed!
In case you haven't noticed, the flag flying above Velodyna is bloody massive. It'd take a dozen men to change it, and far too long besides. But there's no need for all that─right, M'naago?
Not so long as I have my griffin and a satchel of glamour prisms, no!
Arenvald, you're in charge of the runners between us and the Alliance. No linkpearls.Lyse, I want you to look in on the squadrons─make sure they've got everything they need. Everybody clear?
Aye, sir!
All forces are to depart for Castellum Corvi when ready. That will be all.Forename, stay with me a moment, if you would.
There's a few men I'd like you to look in on personally. Each of them has lost people, and I can tell that it weighs on their hearts...
There have been a lot of new faces since last you were here, so it's best if I just tell you where to look. One's an officer you'll find in the Barber, another's an older fellow who likes to pass the time on the shore of Starfall. The last is a fiery young lad from Little Ala Mhigo, who I'm told trains by himself by the river to the Fringes. You'll know them when you see them. Come and find me when you've finished.
I say, if it isn't the lass who helped me find the Ward I misplaced!
Ah, but there I go again treating you as an equal! It wasn't till after you'd gone that one of my comrades pulled me aside and told me it was only the bleedin' hero of Eorzea who'd taken time out of her busy day to help me!
Well, what is done is done. But know that I will fight with every onze of my strength in this coming battle, and the next and the next! Mayhap that will serve to repay the favor. Fare you well!
