Come on, dear!
I'm sorry, but I must be going.
Wait, please!
You're new here, I gather. It may seem strange at first, but give it time. You'll grow accustomed to it soon enough.
No, no, I-I'm not... Er... Rather, I'm... Oh, what can I say?
Of course! This earring─do you recognize it?
Impossible!
My name is Krile. When I was a baby, I was taken from this world to another, where I grew up without knowledge of my past.
I know not how much time has passed for you, and er...things may not be as you expect them to be, but...I'm here now. I've found my way back.
This earring, it contained a code with which I was able to reopen the gate. And I did, and I'm here, and...
Could it be as she claims...?
She's not lying─I can tell. And there is no mistaking the earring...
How you've grown, my darling daughter!
It has been twenty years...
Ah, yes, names. I'm Robor, and this is Alayla...your mother.
Doubtless we have a mountain of questions for each other, but perhaps we can take this somewhere quieter?
The heatwells, for instance. There's a spot there where we can relax and chat.
To think that Krile would actually meet her parents...
Miracles really do happen here... I'm happy for Krile.
Could it be that the system orchestrated this reunion as well...?
Forgive me... This is all so much to take in, I'm struggling to collect my thoughts.
Alright. I feel a little calmer now.
I thought myself prepared for the possibility, but to actually come face-to-face with my parents was overwhelming.
And having been parted from them as an infant, I'm not sure how to behave...
Take your time. After everything that has happened, you deserve to do so.
You have many things to say to one another. Now you can say them.
Indeed. This is a meeting to be cherished. Just do what comes natural, eh?
Thank you, everyone. I'll make the most of our time together...
That we should meet our daughter again here of all places...
You're all our daughter's friends, yes? Thank you for bringing her to us.
You could carve the tension with a knife...
Let us keep an eye on things for now.
It's such a strange feeling to be reunited with you beyond death...
Your companions─what are they called?
Oh dear, I'd completely forgotten to introduce them!
Over here is Wuk Lamat, Vow of Resolve of Tuliyollal. Beside her is G'raha Tia, my colleague in the Students of Baldesion.
And this is Forename, an adventurer─though that hardly does herhim justice. SheHe is the most dependable of friends, to whom I owe my life.
My word. We clearly have a great deal of thanks to give. Don't we, dear?
Oh, uh...yes! Yes, we do! Our heartfelt gratitude to you all.
Not the smoothest of beginnings, is it...?
If only we had some xibruq pibil to ease the way, am I right?
Wait... That's not a bad idea.
Hey, are you hungry? We could bring you something to eat if you like?
Oh...uh, thank you, but we're fine.
You know, it's quite hot here by the springs.
Something cold would be lovely.
Understood! We'll fetch you all treats that'll help cool you off!
I wouldn't want to be a bother, but...
Think nothing of it. This is what friends are for.
Thank you. We shall look forward to the cool treats.
Thank you, Forename. We look forward to seeing what you bring.
I feel like a bundle of nerves...
You're very considerate.
As we've learned, good food brings people together─even sworn foes!
That was well conceived, Wuk Lamat.
Hehe, just putting what I learned in Yak T'el to use.
If I had to mention a potential problem, however, it is that food here tastes like nothing to the living.
Seriously!? I had no idea...
Still, it appears to be perfectly enjoyable for the Endless. In going along with the idea, Krile likely understands this.
It may not instantly break the ice, but I'm hopeful that it will help to thaw it.
So, shall we split up and look for what Alayla requested? Something cold, ironically.
This is supposed to be a special moment, so I say we go with the best treat there is─one that'll leave an impression! The locals ought to be able to recommend something.
If you wanted to ask people near the aetheryte, Forename, G'raha Tia and I will do the same elsewhere.
