Gods strike me down... We reunite again after a hundred years, and what should happen...
Y-Yes? My apologies, but I'm in some haste. If you have something to say, please make it brief.
Your friend noticed that I seemed troubled, so you've been looking for me? What kind souls you are!
I've lost something important─the engagement ring intended for my beloved. A lanky, monkey-like fiend stole it from me.
After running hither and thither, I managed to locate the beast in yonder square, but I'm uncertain how I should take the ring back...
Once, I might have considered fighting for it, but given the shortage of aether, the danger is simply too great.
If I were to be struck down and my essence dispersed, I am not like to be remade for a long time.
I cannot risk that. Not after my beloved has finally been given form again after a hundred years.
Though it pains me to do so, I shall give up on the ring, but I thank you for your kind concern.
That accursed beast was holding up the ring, taunting me! Grrr, how I should like to teach it a lesson... Just to warn you, it seems to be fond of shiny objects. Should you venture into yonder square, I suggest you keep an eye on your possessions.
That accursed beast was holding up the ring, taunting me! Grrr, how I should like to teach it a lesson... Just to warn you, it seems to be fond of shiny objects. Should you venture into yonder square, I suggest you keep an eye on your possessions.
Oh, 'tis you again. Was there something else?
Good heavens, this is the ring! You took it back from that beast!?
Thank you! Thank you ever so much!
I see you've already resolved the situation, Forename.
You must be the friend who first noticed me. I owe you my gratitude as well.
My name is Euclase. I was planning to propose to my beloved with the ring, and thanks to you, I can do just that.
Well, well, that is cause to rejoice indeed. Did the two of you meet here?
No, we were sweethearts in life. But I died young, and she only followed me decades later.
Even then, our reunion wasn't yet to be, for the aether shortage means not everyone can be recreated. I had to wait until but recently to see her again.
A reunion beyond death... Such a thing would be possible here, I suppose.
I assume you're newly arrived.
While our memories are stored in the terminals, less than one in ten of us has been given form at present.
I myself have been reincarnated three times now, and each time there seems to be fewer of us. It's fairly a miracle that my beloved and I could meet.
I see. Given the circumstances, the chances of existing concurrently with an acquaintance would be slim indeed─and slimmer still for a loved one.
Truly. That is why I decided to do that which I failed to do in life: ask her for her hand.
With her regulator, she was spared the sadness of my death. Even so, she never took another man for the rest of her days.
She told me that, although she couldn't remember me afterwards, she could never shake the feeling that someone precious had been a part of her life. The sweet fool...
The ring represents a yearning I have long carried, though I know full well it is only a construct. Like these bodies of ours.
...There is a part of me that wonders if this is wrong. Not that I expect us to exist forever, even in this form.
But to be with the one I love once again and make her happy... However wrong this world may be, I have nothing but gratitude for Queen Sphene.
Now, if you'll excuse me, I shall go and make that proposal. I've made her wait long enough as it is.
This isn't much, but please accept it as a token of my thanks.
Tickets?
For the gondola. To ensure that order is preserved, we must observe the proper way of doing things even here. It's very much like Queen Sphene to make it so, is it not?
Take care, my friends─and see to it you have no regrets!
Well, I think it's about time we rejoined the others...but what do you say we go by gondola?
I expect it won't be possible to do so once the terminal has been shut down.
Come then, let us seek a vessel at the pier.
I've presented our tickets. While I'm no stranger to boats, I can't help but feel a little excited!
