Welcome, friends! Welcome!
Who are you?
My name is Constancy, and like you, I am an Endless.
We have been recreated from the memories of those who have exhausted their souls─the departed, in other words.
Great effort is taken to ensure the integrity of your memories, so it will feel no different from when you were flesh and blood.
(Let's go along with it for now.)
I am a caretaker here at Living Memory, city of the Endless, and it is my pleasure to provide guidance to newcomers such as your good selves.
City of the Endless... At a glance, there seems to be many different facilities. What kind of place is this?
Simply put, it is a recreational attraction. The city is divided into four areas, each of which captures scenery that once defined our continent.
In this way we ensure that what is lost is not forgotten. That all precious memories endure forevermore.
In Everkeep's early days, this place was used by the living, but it was made a haven for the Endless hundreds of years later.
Now then, if you would please follow me, I shall give you a guided tour. Do take care, as wildlife brought here for preservation roams freely.
H-Hold on a moment!
While a tour would be interesting, it's Sphene that we've come to see.
Oh, so you wish to meet the queen! In that case, you are in luck.
It was just announced that Her Majesty will enter into a slumber, but there is still time.
If you try calling to her before the Meso Terminal, at the center of the city, she will likely appear.
I'm not sure how things work around here, but let's head to this Meso Terminal.
Our thanks, Constancy. We'll take you up on the tour next time.
I shall look forward to it. Good luck seeking out Her Majesty!
Queen Sphene enjoys meeting her people. I am quite confident she will appear for you at the Meso Terminal.
Like the chamber in the Skydeep Cenote, the electrope here produces a strong golden light. A difference in energy levels, perhaps.
I wonder, can the Endless venture elsewhere, or can they only survive here?
The plants are real as far as I can tell. Not everything is an illusion.
Sphene! Are you there?
If you are, say something! We need to talk!
Sphene!
Hmm... That you should come here...
I haven't known you long, Sphene, but I know you have a good heart. Your love for your people is proof of this.
I can't let you do what you're trying to do. And deep down, I don't think you want to do it either.
I want a world without suffering. A world where nothing is lost... Would that such a place existed.
But the Endless only grow in number, and ever more life force is needed to sustain them.
Within the barrier, we have managed to curb the cycle of rebirth these few hundred years. But we've reached the limit.
That is why I looked to interdimensional fusion. To harvest what we needed from your world.
From your people. And with the key, we will have it.
And once you've plundered our world of aether, what then? Will you do the same to others?
All men eventually die. If you make Endless of everyone, you will never have enough aether to sustain them. You but prolong the inevitable.
Sphene. If you would nevertheless persist in this folly, we must stand against you.
For we too have people we cannot lose. Places to which our hearts belong.
Lamaty'i... I would have loved nothing more than to work hand in hand with you to tend our nations.
But fate is cruel. By the time it had brought us together, our futures had already been written.
The kind and gentle Queen Sphene was too weak to serve her people. And so she will serve them no more.
I will erase all memories of the living Sphene─she who has cursed me with this soft and powerless nature.
Freed from conscience, I shall become a ruler that can protect Alexandria. A devourer of worlds.
When two nations cannot protect their own without doing harm to the other, there can be only one resolution. It is a hard truth...but one you understand, don't you?
I'm afraid we're out of time. The process has begun. And it cannot be stopped.
