The following pages detail an advanced method for manipulating rift-spanning apertures as devised by Nuhashahn, the ninth patriarch of House Daemir.
We present these research notes to the faculty of Sharlayan's Studium as both a token of our friendship and an expression of our boundless admiration.
We present these research notes to the faculty of Sharlayan's Studium as both a token of our friendship and an expression of our boundless admiration.
Have something you'd like to show me, do you? My apologies─I flipped open but a single book and was completely absorbed by the contents...
Well done, Forename. I think you may have found our prize.
Yes, the aether signature is unmistakable. I've felt the traces of House Daemir's resonance many times at the Great Work.
Time to see what all the fuss was about...
“Among the ranks of the voidsent, there exist entities with the power to call forth their brethren from beyond. The species known as “Atomos,” however, is uniquely prodigious in this regard.
“From its distended maw, it can expel an endless procession of voidborn creatures─a talent which sorely tested the Radiant Host in its battles against these abominations.
“Surmising that the entity itself was acting as a voidgate, we endeavored to capture a small specimen and subsequently examine its physiological structure.
“Our findings revealed that the Atomos had absorbed a planar fissure into its own flesh, which it could expand at will into a functioning gate.
“Upon further analysis, we identified an aetherial wave pattern emitted during this process─a pattern we were able to emulate by passing crystal-stored aether through a specially designed prism.
“We proceeded to embed said prism into an arcane simulacrum, thus completing what we have dubbed our 'artificial Atomos.'”
How could I have been so blind to the possibilities? This species, not to mention its ability to summon voidsent, has been discussed among academics for years now.
Just before the advent of the Seventh Umbral Calamity, we received reports of Atomos sightings from every corner of Eorzea. Surely you've at least heard the tales?
And still House Daemir went and built a mock Atomos of their very own. I'm not surprised the Archons consigned their work to a restricted archive.
'Twas no easy task, but at last we've unearthed the volume we've been searching for.
I'd be lying if I said I wasn't tempted to stay longer. See what other forbidden titles might be lurking on these shelves...
Ah, but that would be abusing the very special privilege we've been granted now, wouldn't it? Better not.
CoNgRaTuLaTiOnS oN lOcAtInG tHe ObJeCt Of YoUr SeArCh. PlEaSe MoVe AlOnG.
As much as I would love to start crafting the Atomos, I'm afraid this is far outside my field of expertise.
Fortunately, we know a Hannish alchemist who would be delighted to involve herself in our House Daemir project.
Our business here is concluded, for the moment. Please pass on our regards to the Forum.
YoUr MeSsAgE wIlL bE cOnVeYeD. sHoUlD yOu WiSh To InDuLgE iN mOrE fOrBiDdEn LiTeRaTuRe, I wIlL bE hErE. pAtRoN mOdE dIsAbLeD. sEcUrItY mOdE eNgAgEd.
If anyone can help us, Nidhana can. I say we return to Thavnair and look for her at the Great Work.
All these sallow, sleep-deprived faces, but their eyes still burn with fiery zeal. Some things never change.
Y'shtola tells me you are pursuing a most fascinating study! And that you want me to be a part of it.
I have no doubt you will be interested. This research log should speak for itself.
Will it now...?
By the Sisters! This is the mark of House Daemir! I never even knew such a work existed...
Few should. It was sequestered in Noumenon's restricted archives, after all.
It was!? But...that means every word within is forbidden knowledge!
A forbidden tome filled with forbidden research, and you put it right into my unsuspecting hand!?
I can hardly wait to read it!
To think the Daemir were developing such marvelous techniques so long ago. How many innovations have been lost over the centuries, I wonder...
Now that you've glanced over the notes, what say you to helping us build a new mock Atomos?
I say yes! A thousand times yes!
Work on a Daemir project that had even the redoubtable scholars of Sharlayan trembling in their sandals? No alchemist of the Great Work could resist!
You are a woman after my own heart.
Oh, I suppose I should ask: what do you mean to do with this big-mouthed simulacrum once we've built it?
So, there's a secret voidgate...and it's sealed in the ruins at the bottom of the Bounty? Today is a day of revelations indeed.
If the purpose of our man-made Atomos is to expand this hidden portal, then I will need to see it for myself, I think. Manipulating rift-spanning apertures is not the sort of thing you want to attempt without first taking into account every single factor.
Then by all means, accompany us to the vault. I plan to lead us back there shortly...once we've finished gathering the components I require.
Sharlayan's markets provided the raw aquamarine and pure water crystals...
But I might need help obtaining a small quantity of astrally infused water.
For such a liquid, you need go no further than the Font of Maya─the ascetics of old once favored the place for their meditations, and the water which pools there now is known to enliven the flow of aether.
That sounds perfect. If you would be so kind as to fill a flask at the pool, I will petition Vrtra to join us. The idea I have in mind won't amount to much without his authority to command the voidgate.
Shall we be about it, then? We meet back here anon.
Ah, there is no greater joy than having a new puzzle to ponder...
Oh, I forgot to mention! The Font of Maya attracts aggressive wildlife, and you should watch out for them when, uh...you go there next time. My apologies.
Archon Y'shtola requested that I join you, but of her plans she offered scant detail...
The boy Mehrahd was glad to hear the news of the foundation. It means a new life for him and his sister.
Do you have that flask for me?
Yes...this should suffice. Thank you, Forename.
Look who I came across. Estinien seemed in need of diversion, and we, in turn, may have need of his lance...
Right, then. Now that our little party is assembled, let us make our way to the ruins.
Will we have need of Matsya's boat again?
Not this time. Once Y'shtola informed me of our destination, I arranged for a vessel to be made ready at Akyaali.
Your Excellency is ever the gracious host. Shall we?
And all this time I thought the tales of Alzadaal's hoard were no more than drunken sailors' fancies!
You need not keep your weapons close at hand. The guardians will not attack if I am present, so I pray you leave them be...
'Tis likely not needed with Vrtra along, but I held onto the map against the chance we might return to the ruins.
Onto the boat, if you please. We can chat on the way there.
The ship is yours to command.
Our thanks. We set sail at once.
Oh, this is so exciting! Alzadaal's Legacy─to see the truth of a legend with mine own eyes!
All aboard for the treasure vault!
I thought we cleared this place of constructs the last time we came through. 'Twould seem a few stragglers remained.
...He laid waste to them ere I could utter a single word. <sigh>
Poor Vrtra─he really should have spoken with Estinien before we left. I shudder to think what we've cost them in terms of construct materials...
The ruins alone were impressive enough, but I never dreamed such a treasure lay hidden in the depths of the Bounty...
It may have been helpful to know this device existed, Your Excellency.
My apologies...the gate was a secret I shared with none but my closest advisors. I feared for what might happen should those with ill intentions learn of its existence.
What is it you're doing now?
There is something I wish to verify.
The NOAH reports claim that a short stint into the void carries little risk of aetheric imbalance.
Should one suffer an injury, however, or if one's expedition drags on longer than intended, that risk becomes significantly greater.
G'raha theorized that a warding scale would confer protection from the void's corrupting influence... But I would prefer to test that hypothesis before we set foot in the Thirteenth ourselves.
So...this is an experiment of sorts.
Yes. An experiment... Tell me: how would you go about testing the efficacy of the warding scale?
And how would you do that? The gate is still too small for any of us to pass through.
Estinien is correct. Which is why I've elected to send a familiar in our stead.
What? Why are you looking at me like that? Surely you'd not expect me to wriggle through that tiny portal?
We needn't attempt anything so drastic. A small familiar should serve well enough.
Very good. I see you've been paying attention.
As Vrtra sent his simulacrum, so too shall we rely on a familiar to bear the brunt of any unpleasant consequences.
Now, a lowly imp can navigate a fissure, no matter how narrow.
Which means an arcane entity of similar stature should be able to manage the same.
I hadn't wanted it to come to this...but no other familiars will do, I'm afraid.
I mislike the sound of that. What manner of fiend does she mean to summon...?
From ocean rise and cloudbank form,From mountain spring and rainfall storm,From river flow and life be born...
Water, water, froth and foam!♪
Ready your arms. I fear she's been possessed...
Oh, come now, that was adorable!
Water, water, froth and foam!♪Time to play!
Though not my first choice, these familiars I conceived of as a child have the best chance of fitting through the gate.
...I only wish my younger self had considered a more dignified ending to the creation ritual.
In any case, these two should serve us well.
This one will bear a warding scale...
And when they return from the Thirteenth, we can observe how the talisman─or absence thereof─has affected the progress of the void's corruption.
If I could impose upon you to open the gate, Your Excellency?
Ah, yes, of course...
We should also be wary of voidsent slipping through while we conduct our experiment. Estinien, you are to keep Nidhana safe from harm.
As you say...
You had best be on your guard, as well.
And we are glad for it.
Oh? Are you volunteering to join the nixies? I could shrink you down, you know...
Please, just...do me a favor, and forget you ever saw that.
Let us begin, shall we?
Nixies! Into the void!
Water, water, froth and foam! Into shadowed realms we roam!
We need to wait for a time to ensure a meaningful result. Be patient, and keep watch for any intruders.
Sisters save me, I will never see Y'shtola the same way again! “Froth and foam,” indeed!
I struggle to picture Y'shtola as a little girl. Easier to believe she sprang fully formed from one of Master Matoya's cauldrons.
Every time I come here, it reminds me of that dark portal above the Crystal Tower...and the final lash of Azdaja's tail as she plunged into the void.
I think we've waited long enough.
Nixies! Return to my side!
Water...water... <splutter>
Thank you, little one. You did well.
The poor thing. Its essence has been irrevocably warped...
