You here to help or give me more headaches? Because you don't have the look of a gleaner, and I'm in no mood for idle chatter.
One of my colleagues was so exhausted he took a tumble and crashed into a pile of crates. Now I have a pack of marmots running loose...
One of my colleagues was so exhausted he took a tumble and crashed into a pile of crates. Now I have a pack of marmots running loose...
Those little devils are quick as sin and twice as hard to catch. I suppose I had better start searching...
My poor, aching back... Ever since the summons came from the guildship, I've been hauling endless stacks of supplies. Books, ore, animals─you name it, I've moved it.
Let's see here... Item 3042 is Walker's popotoes, yes? And 3043 is wild popotoes. Then...where are my mountain popotoes? This can't be right...
Any luck, Forename? What tales did the gleaners have to tell?
So this grand operation began without warning? And for every item they bring in, they're sending more inventory somewhere else. Hmm... That would explain the haggard faces I've been seeing.
We were right─the Forum is definitely up to something. And they're turning Labyrinthos upside down in the process.
We would do well to learn more of what, specifically, the gleaners are being tasked to do, as well as who has tasked them to do it.
If you're game, Forename, I have an idea...
Didn't one of the gleaners you questioned say something about escaped marmots?
Perhaps if you were to help him capture said creatures, he might be inclined towards a more friendly and enlightening conversation...
In the meantime, I will turn my charms upon this gleaner here. We can compare notes afterwards. Happy hunting!
Terribly sorry to disturb you! I need to submit this report of mine, and quickly─it's a bit overdue. Could you remind me of the approximate date the guildship was enlisted to help facilitate this most recent operation?
You wish to help me find the marmots? I've nothing suitable to pay you for your services, but if you're offering out of the goodness of your heart, I'd welcome the assistance.
The name is Erenville, friend. Specialist in the collection of live specimens.
That said, the capture of these Nagxian marmots is a trial I've no desire to repeat. “Grizzled mice,” they call them.
For a mercy, there are no other marmot species on this tier at present, so there should be no mistaking our little fugitives. If you happen to catch any, stuff them in this sack. Gently, of course.
Where to begin, you wonder? I've not seen any scampering around here, so we'll need to widen our search into the surrounding forest.
Be on your guard. There are beasts out there that won't hesitate to prey on a marmot─or you.
I'll search the trees to the west. The eastern part of the forest is all yours. Good luck.
