Yes, I am Ernold. ...What do you want with me?
Hmmm, you would have me dredge up some decidedly unsavory memories. Yet if Ala Mhigo is to move forward, we must needs acknowledge the misdeeds of the past.
Very well, I shall tell you what I remember. I take it you know of Theodoric's paranoia and the public executions of his kinsmen?
Those were terrible enough. But in his last days, the king's fevered mind settled upon an even grislier method of “disposal” which only a chosen few were unfortunate enough to witness.
His Majesty ordered the court thaumaturge to unleash a vile curse upon the remaining members of the royal family─a magic which transformed them into fiends of hideous aspect. The resulting...monstrosities were then cast into the darkness below the palace.
Even now, my sleep is troubled by nightmares. If others of Theodoric's blood were prone to share his madness, then mayhap it is a kindness that the monarchy ended with him.
Since we're all here, why don't we share what we've learned?
Allow me to begin, then. As promised, I scoured the imperial records for any mention of fantastic treasures...and found precisely none.
It is just possible, I suppose, that a corrupt official deliberately hid the fact of the trove's discovery, hoping to enrich himself─but I find it rather unlikely that so valuable a find would stay secret for long. I conclude that our prize either does not exist, or that the imperials somehow overlooked it.
But what of you, Forename? Were your investigations any more fruitful?
...Turned into monsters? And what could he mean by this “darkness beneath the palace,” I wonder...
I met an old man in Ala Ghiri who spoke of the palace's subterranean prison, but he said naught of cursed abominations!
The imperial archives were also silent on the subject of fiends inside the palace grounds.
Could this scribe fellow have been spinning her a yarn, do you think? Did you believe him, Forename?
If he was afraid, that does lend credence to the tale—though I'm not sure how that helps us in our search.
Then we're back where we started...
Do not be so hasty─Ernold's anecdote may very well have told us where the trove is hidden. But ere I share my theory, there is a matter I would clarify.
Arenvald, you spoke of light-hearted adventure, but I sense a deeper motive for this expedition. Why are you so intent on finding this treasure?
...It wasn't all pretense, I swear it. But...you're right.
My father was in the imperial army, a man of Garlean blood. I trust you know what I mean when I say that my Ala Mhigan mother did not welcome my arrival?
As I grew, she would check my brow over and over, convinced that a spot on my skin was an emerging third eye─like the kind you see in pureblood Garleans. My mother did not care for this taunting reminder of my heritage, and took up a knife...War paint serves to cover the scar.
In the end, she turned me out into the street, and I was left to haunt the alleyways of Ala Mhigo, a feral child who got what he needed through begging, cunning, or worse.
The best I can say about the years that followed is that I survived. But I hated the animal I'd become. Eventually, I left the city behind me, and joined a group of refugees bound for the other side of the Wall. It was then that I turned to adventuring, and that road led me into the company of the Scions.
I tell you this so that you understand: I know all too well what poverty and hunger can do to a person.
I drew steel on ordinary folk for a measly crust of bread. With Theodoric's gold, I could spare my countrymen the shame of living like that.
Thank you, Arenvald, and I apologize─that cannot have been pleasant to recall. But I felt it best to be clear in our intentions.
Well, Forename? Are you content to surrender the treasure to Arenvald's noble cause, and claim the thrill of adventure as your reward?
Then I should be glad to tell you my theory on the resting place of the mad king's trove...if you are minded to hear it?
...Actually, mayhap it would be better if we first adjourned to a more suitable location.
...In case a rival treasure hunter overhears our plans, you mean? Good thinking!
That...was not exactly the reason, but 'tis certainly a valid concern. Let us reconvene on the southern edge of Loch Seld.
Forgive me. 'Twas not my intention to draw out proceedings. I simply wished to have the loch in sight while I explained things.
Prior to the great flood of the Sixth Umbral Calamity, the salt lakes you see before you were yet dry ravines. And this, believe it or not, was the site of the ancient city of Skalla, which rose and fell during the Fifth Astral Era.
From what we know of the period, the city was already deserted by the time the waters began to rise, having been all but destroyed by war. Yet its ruins remain to this day at the bottom of Loch Seld.
It is my belief that the “darkness beneath the palace” mentioned by Theodoric's former scribe was not a reference to the prison, but to a place still further below: the ruins of Skalla.
I further surmise that the mad king's unfortunate kinsmen were cast down there not simply out of a desire to punish them, but to discourage exploration. Theodoric wanted to keep the ruins secure...
Wait...you're saying...they were meant to guard the mad king's trove!
Precisely. And since we know the court thaumaturge was involved, we can safely assume that any entrance into the old city will have been magically concealed.
...Which would explain how a legion of imperial soldiers and the gods know how many Ala Mhigans never found a trace of the trove.
We, however, have certain advantages which they did not enjoy. Forename─would you be so good as to swim down to the bottom of the loch and search for an underwater route into the ruins? While you do that, Arenvald and I will seek out an ensorcelled portal within the palace.
We, however, have certain advantages which they did not enjoy. Forename─would you be so good as to swim down to the bottom of the loch and search for an underwater route into the ruins? While you do that, Arenvald and I will seek out an ensorcelled portal within the palace.
We, however, have certain advantages which they did not enjoy. Forename─would you be so good as to swim down to the bottom of the loch and search for an underwater route into the ruins? While you do that, Arenvald and I will seek out an ensorcelled portal within the palace.
