Well met, travelers. I observed you earlier speaking with the others. Have you need of something?
You watered the crops? Ah, my apologies for not noticing sooner. I have been...rather distracted of late.
Watering the crops was always Toddia's duty, but she...she is no longer with us.
We have since taken to sharing the duty─though never with guests... You are most kind.
Is there anything else we can do to help? We could plant something if you like.
There is no need. The plot is small, it is true, but it provides us with enough to survive. We ask for no more.
I don't know how you manage...
Have the Blessed not considered leaving? Life would surely be easier almost anywhere else.
I can understand why you might say that, but the easiest path is not always the right one.
Tell me, do you know our history? How our faith came to be?
Ah, er...yes, I believe so. The Night's Blessed was initially formed by those who lost their homes in the wake of the Flood.
What began as an occasional gathering of survivors eventually grew into a community, which ultimately decided to strike out on its own in the Rak'tika Greatwood.
I see you have read your history.
But there is a history that is told, and one that is lived.
Like so many in those times, the first of the Night's Blessed lost everything. Their homes, their loved ones─all they held dear.
To make matters worse, none could say what became of the souls of those lost to the Flood when their bodies were reborn as sin eaters.
The people were without answers, without hope, their gods having drowned along with everything else. It seemed that nothing was beyond the reach of the Light.
But soon they realized that where there is Light, there must be Darkness.
And in that truth, they found new faith─a belief that the souls of the departed could yet find peace beyond these burning skies, in the sunless sea above.
That is why we pray. For the safe passage of wayward souls unto that blessed black abyss. For the return of the night, that we might someday look upon the kingdom of heaven with our own eyes.
We remain in these woods for the selfsame reason our founders first chose them─that we may lead lives of simplicity, with the shade of these trees as a constant reminder of our faith.
With so many seeking paradise in Eulmore, it's refreshing to find people who value a humbler existence.
You are kind to say so. Many consider our way of life foolish─and so it must seem to those who yet cling to their worldly possessions.
In times such as these, when everything can be taken away in an instant, it is all too easy to lose sight of why we fight to go on living.
...It is not to hold fast to material things, but to hold those who went before us in our hearts─to keep alive the legacy they have left us.
This we must do for them, our children, and generations yet unborn.
...To keep their legacy alive.
Done tending to the crops already?
Very good. It should not be long before your room is ready.
