Ah, you must be the Emissary.
I see you have come prepared. That is well.
I have been instructed to escort you to your place. Please follow me.
Look.
The Elder Seedseer.
Twelve bless her heart!
May she find favor with the elementals!
This radiance...
Could it be...a Crystal of Light?
Tell me true─has the Mothercrystal revealed Herself to you? Did you bask in Her Light?
Have you perchance experienced sensations akin to aether sickness of late?
That Hydaelyn would speak directly to this woman...
There once were dauntless adventurers who fought in the name of Eorzea.
When the primals threatened to bleed the land dry, these brave men and women rose to face them. When the Garlean Empire resumed its war of conquest, they rushed to the realm's defense.
And when it was foretold that Dalamud would fall, they fought with all their strength to deliver us from certain doom.
Yet as strong and as brave as they were, they─like so many─disappeared amidst the flames at Carteneau.
None have forgotten the heroes who gave all for the sake of a realm not their own.
Yet when we try to recall their names, we find the pages of our memories are blank, as if bleached by the sun.
And when we try to recall their faces, we see them only in silhouette, as if they stood betwixt us and a blinding glare.
Hence have these heroes come to be known as the Warriors of Light.
Beholding you, illuminated by the glow of the Crystal, I could not help but be reminded of them.
The Crystal has chosen you for a purpose.
Trust to its guiding light, and all shall be revealed to you in good time.
Though none can say for certain what the future will bring, it is my belief that you may yet play a telling role in the tale of this great realm.
...For the power of the Echo resides within you.
Flames, to the fore!
Victory belongs to the bold! Show those imperial whoresons what we're made of!
The left flank buckles! Divert the Barracudas!
Bid 'em hold that position though it cost 'em their lives!
The Yellow Serpents are in need of succor. Pray send the White Wolves to their aid.
The adventurers risk life and limb for our cause. We must not fail them.
Is aught amiss?
No... It is nothing.
Bloody hells!
The barrier won't go down so easily! Eyes forward!
We are being watched...
Raging Bull calling Blood Thorn! Blood Thorn, respond! Respond, damn you!
Arrrgh!!!
Raging Bull! This is Mad Snake! Respond!
Ryder!? This is Raging Bull! What news!?
We're surrounded by a blaze! There's no way out! Gods preserve, what is that thing!?
What's going on!? Speak to me!
Godsdammit! We cannot hold much longer!
AaaaaaAAAAAAAAAH!!!
Mad Snake!? Mad Snaaaaaake! Answer me!
Damn it! Damn it all to the seventh hell!
What of the Barracudas? Can they not be reached?
Sorry, Admiral─shell's not workin'!
What of our own?
I cannot say, my lady! That monstrosity appears to be disrupting our communications!
We must keep trying. Call till they respond.
Yes, my lady!
Admiral, General─we can do no more. We must give the order to withdraw.
I will not forsake Louisoix!
General, please! Victory may belong to the bold, but there will be no victor this day!
You know this to be true. Let us not sacrifice lives in vain.
The adventurers fight bravely, but to no avail. Let them withdraw, and let us be the ones to stand with Louisoix.
Belay previous orders! All Maelstrom units are commanded to fall back, effective immediately!
Give the Foreign Levy priority! Let the main host cover their retreat, and bring up the rear!
Damn it... Relay the order: all Flames are to withdraw.
I don't care if our linkshells are useless!
You still have a working pair of legs, don't you!? Well, use 'em, you bloody half-wit!
The outcome of this battle was long since decided.
Better to retreat now, than risk a massacre.
This dark, stifling presence... Who...or what...?
We go to take our place beside Archon Louisoix! To your positions!
That I should live to behold Bahamut once more...
Magnificent. The eons of imprisonment have only made him hungrier.
I am aware of them. Pay them no mind. They are powerless to act.
It has begun. Soon the planet will regain its true form.
Ahahaha... Ahahahahaha!
Ah! Look who's back in the land of the living!
Hm? You mean to say you don't remember a thing?
You collapsed in the middle of the ceremony─gave us all a good fright. So we carried you back here. I must say, you're heavier than you look!
You've hardly stopped of late─your exertions must have caught up with you.
But you adventurers are nothing if not resilient! Seeing as the worst is past, I shall take my leave and return to my duties.
Oh, I almost forgot─the Elder Seedseer told me she'd like to see you when you felt well enough.
The gentle soul was almost as worried about you as I was, bless her. When you're back on your feet, be sure and visit her at the Lotus Stand.
Ah, you are Forename Surname, are you not? I bid you welcome, my lady. The Elder Seedseer left word that you would be joining her at the Lotus Stand. May I show you in?
I have looked forward to your coming, Forename. But tell me, are you recovered?
I am most glad of that. Now, I hope you will not doubt the earnestness of my concern...but I would ask a favor of you. Nor can I deny that I summoned you here in part with this in mind. Know, however, that I proceed only upon the understanding that you are rested and well.
Thank you for hearing me out.
I have written a letter to my counterparts in the Eorzean Alliance.
The Battle of Carteneau and the Calamity that followed claimed countless souls, and left countless more bereft and alone. In the dark days that followed, many were the survivors who thought themselves less fortunate than the dead.
Five years have come and gone, but the land and the people still bear the wounds of the devastation.
Nor are we any closer to learning the fate of the Warriors of Light.
Yet so long as we live, never must we give up hope. We owe this to those who laid down their lives that we might behold another dawn.
In remembrance of them, a memorial service will soon be held upon the anniversary of the Battle of Carteneau. This missive bears the details of that service.
You graciously accepted the part of Emissary in the recent ceremony.
Should you be so willing, I would now make you my envoy, and have you bear my message to our allies.
Your dedication to the people of Gridania rouses fond memories in me, and I would choose no other for the role. Will you do me this favor?
Humbly, I thank you.
As you are no doubt aware, our partners in the Eorzean Alliance lie some considerable distance away. Nor are Ul'dah and Limsa Lominsa close to one another.
Yet fear not, for I have no intention of subjecting you, mine own newly anointed envoy, to a journey which would take weeks by land.
No, I mean for you to travel by air. Receive of me this airship pass. With it, you may make use of the skyways that connect the three city-states of the Alliance.
The airship landing is situated upon the lower floor of the Carline Canopy. Simply show your pass, and you will be admitted to the departure area. Before you embark upon your journey, however, you would do well to seek the worldly wisdom of Miounne. Few forestborn Gridanians know more of the lands beyond the Twelveswood than she.
In better times, airships were available for the convenience of one and all. Alas, the risk that our crafts may fall to imperial attack has forced a reduction in the number of flights.
Consequently, it has become necessary to restrict air travel only to those whose need is great. Such individuals may petition the relevant parties to be issued an airship pass. As you may have deduced, I myself am one such party.
...Yet I was not alone in desiring that you be granted the privilege of air travel.
Such is the potential you show.
We have no doubt but that you will reward our faith in you, Forename.
By the power vested in me, I bid you journey forth as my envoy into the great realm of Eorzea.
Walk her fields, brave her seas, and strive to know her better.
And wheresoever you go, go without fear, for the path shall ever be revealed to those who are true of heart.
Guided by the Crystal's light, set forth, and discover your destiny.
'Tis good to see you up and about again, Forename. Tell me, did you pay the Elder Seedseer a visit as I bade?
Appointed personal envoy!?
And now you are to bear the Elder Seedseer's missive to our allies...
Well! It seems you've made an impression on the great woman! I can't argue with her judgment, though. You've earned this honor with tireless hard work, and anyone who says you don't deserve it had better not do so in my hearing!
I find myself praising you often of late, but Mother is truly proud of you.
Short of a Warrior of Light, I can imagine no better adventurer to represent us─and that, my girl, is some compliment!
But I've flattered you enough for one day. And I don't want your head to get too big, or you'll struggle to lug it around the realm. Speaking of which, Eorzea is a big old place.
Now that you have an airship pass, you can really start to broaden your horizons. The sky's quite literally the limit.
Even if your errand didn't call for it, I would strongly suggest visiting the two other city-states of the Alliance before you go anywhere else. They are, of course, Limsa Lominsa, city of pirates, and Ul'dah, jewel of the desert.
Once you've acquainted yourself with them, you can turn your sights on whichever lesser-trodden region takes your fancy.
The Calamity changed the face of Eorzea, and much of her now lies in shadow, beyond man's ken. It's a veritable playground for a wide-eyed adventurer like your good self.
Mind you, it won't all be fun and games.
Each nation faces its fair share of problems, from internal strife to conflict with the beast tribes and their primals. So don't be too surprised if you find yourself embroiled in the odd unsavory situation on your travels.
But no matter what difficulties you encounter, I am confident that you will pull through, and emerge the stronger for the experience.
These are interesting times for Eorzea, Forename. It's been five years now since the Calamity, but folk are finally beginning to look to the future.
A period of great change is upon us, and you have a part to play in it. And if that prospect doesn't excite you, I don't know what will!
Greetings, good madam. This is the reservation counter for Limsa Lominsa-bound flights.
Oh, are you not Forename Surname, the Elder Seedseer's personal envoy? We at Highwind Skyways are honored to serve you! Will you be flying with us today?
Very well. When you are ready to board, please let me know.
Attention, all passengers: the airship bound for Limsa Lominsa is about to depart. Please make your way to the boarding gate.
Farewell, Forename.
One day, minstrels will sing of your deeds.
May you ever walk in the light of the Crystal.
It has been fifteen years, but the bitter taste of defeat lingers still...
	      Fifteen years since the imperial fleet set course for Mor Dhona,led by the Agrius, mightiest of all vessels.Silvertear Lake lay ripe for the taking,and all of Eorzea would soon be ours......or so we believed.But an innumerable host of dragons met us that day,at the heart of which flew the great Midgardsormr.Though we succeeded in slaying that lord among wyrms,the dread serpent's defeat was bought at too high a price.Our invincible flagship was lost,and all hope of victory with her.So ended our glorious conquest.
Eorzea... A blighted realm, riddled with false gods...
Twice now it has eluded the Empire's grasp.
For all the destruction it wrought, even Meteor, the Great Sin, failed to yield us control over it.
And for this failure, the realm has sunk deeper into depravity.
It is twisted beyond all reckoning─rotten nigh to the core.
Yet it must be saved.
Only Garlean rule can bring order to Eorzea. It falls to us to deliver the misguided masses from their ignorance.
We are of one mind, Lord van Baelsar.
Senior engineers, please report to magitek research following the scheduled inspection.
Hey. Is the legatus really planning to take another tilt at Eorzea?
Eh!? What hole have you been hiding in? We're in the midst of preparing for a new campaign, and a huge one at that!
But...I thought the Emperor had given up the western lands for lost after Carteneau. What could the legatus possibly hope to gain by acting alone?
I sense you harbor certain doubts over the wisdom of the legatus's plan.
M-My lord!
Please, call me Nero. Tell me, where were you born?
Othard, milord!
Ala Mhigo, my lord!
Ah, Codename Hummingway, I presume?
I-I don't know what you─
Silence. Your denials will not change your fate.
I assure you─Frumentarium sees all.
Argh...
Clean up this mess. And do not miss any, or I shall be most displeased.
A-At once, milord!
Garlond... Soon you will be made to know the true power of magitek.
Ah, you must be the envoy from Gridania! Welcome to Limsa Lominsa, my lady. Admiral Bloefhiswyn awaits your arrival.
Please let me know if you require any assistance.
