Well now, I don't believe I've seen you before.
Well, well, if it isn't Meteion. I see you've brought a friend today.
Greetings, Euanthe! Um, an apple. Could you make me an apple?
The kind Hermes likes. Covered in syrup. I want to share it with Forename!
Oh, candied apple? Hermes is certainly partial to them, but you know you can't eat, Meteion. You weren't made to do so.
B-But I like it too...
It may seem that way, but it's due to your ability to share others' feelings. You've taken Hermes's likes for your own.
In any case, I can't prepare an apple right now, but I'll bring one for Hermes soon. I promise.
I'm sorry, Forename... I wanted to show you my favorite thing. Then I could ask about yours. But I failed...
Ooh, that's what you like? Yes... Yes, I can feel it! Your joy and happiness!
And it makes me happy too! Thanks for sharing it with me, Ghoulissa!
Well, we've walked and talked a lot. Maybe Hermes has finished talking too. Shall we go and see?
I hope Hermes isn't sad anymore...
Between you and me, Hermes's eating habits are atrocious. We may not be reliant upon food to the extent that our smaller creations are, but our diets eventually catch up with us.
If we don't consume the requisite balance of nutrients, we grow weak and lethargic. Yet Hermes consumes candied apples as if they were a staple...
Ah, excellent timing. 'Twas a refreshing constitutional, I hope?
What, back already? Pity. A bit longer and we might have snuck away without you...
There you are. I can see the fresh air has done Meteion good.
Forename wanted to learn about you and Elpis. So I taught her!
About this place. About my power. About your favorite food!
I'm not sure if that last one will be of any use...
But I do appreciate your keeping Meteion company. While you were away, I finished speaking with our guests.
Finished? Hardly. You requested time to consider the invitation, so we have no choice but to occupy ourselves with an inspection of your work.
My apologies...
It has been decided that Emet-Selch and Hythlodaeus will accompany me as I tend to my duties.
If you wish to learn more, perhaps you would like to come too?
I'm compelled to remind you that she is in no way associated with the Convocation. We simply chanced to meet at Propylaion.
There is no guarantee that the matters we discuss will remain private.
I do not mind. To see the joy her presence brings Meteion, I cannot imagine our mysterious friend harbors malicious intent.
Forename is kind. Really, truly! She taught me as much as I taught her!
You're coming, of course? To watch Hermes? You're bound to learn lots and lots!
This time we all get to go for a walk! Isn't it exciting?
It is held that all civil organizations should conduct their affairs with total transparency, and the Convocation is no exception.
But that doesn't mean we are obligated to show our work to unknown entities such as you. Consider yourself privileged─and behave accordingly.
Though I see new creations on a daily basis, here they look at them with a different eye. It will be interesting to observe Hermes at work.
If everyone is ready, there are a few creations I need to check on. First, we shall return to the spot where we found our wayward ambystoma.
Have care when you step outside a hub, for there may be more unruly creatures about.
So beautiful, petalouda! I hope they make it into the world!
Ah yes, the ianthine petalouda. One of the newest species of the ever-popular butterfly.
...Hm? You're still bothered about your robe? Don't be. The few specimens we repurposed won't be missed.
All vim and vigor now. Hmph. When we were discussing his nomination, he was melancholy incarnate.
This here is a new species of petalouda we recently set loose.
It has been doing very well, managing to maintain a stable existence thus far. If it can see its observation period to the end without issue, we shall release it unto the world.
Tell me─do you know the difference between living beings and arcane entities?
It is the presence of a soul. Yet the soul isn't something you can choose to have at will.
No, it manifests only in those beings whose forms adhere to the laws of creation. That can endure on their own.
Beings that do not fulfill this requirement, such as those spontaneously born of magic or natural phenomena, do not have souls.
No matter how much it might resemble flora or fauna, if it lacks a soul, then it is considered an arcane entity.
So you see, it is not for mankind to decide what is living. That domain lies beyond our manipulation, and it is hubris to assume otherwise.
But come, let us head to the nearby beacon. I've received a report that arcane entities have gathered there.
We're meant to be observing Hermes, but instead we're stuck with Meteion...
Well, I suppose she herself serves as proof of his prowess as a researcher and creator both.
A fascinating creation─much like yourself, little one. Renowned as Hermes is for his flying life-forms, 'tis a rare privilege to be able to see one of his works in progress.
Interesting! You're interesting too! Tell me, how did you find the ambystoma?
Ah, yes. Lightning pneuma, just as the report said.
Although we call this structure a beacon due to its form, it's in fact a magical device. By manipulating the balance of elements, it keeps the isle airborne and maintains the climate thereupon.
In the course of its operation, it often sees an internal shift towards a given element.
Right now that element is lightning, which draws the pneuma here to replenish their aether.
...Hmm, it appears Meteion is busy.
Would you care to assist me in her stead, and feed the pneuma?
By using this lightning converger, you can harness ambient lightning and focus it into a ball. A veritable feast for our dazzling friends.
Go on, give it a try.
Go on and use the lightning converger near the pneuma. It will harness ambient lightning and focus it into a ball. A veritable feast for our dazzling friends.
Perfectly done, Forename. Look...
See how they gather to feed. How they express themselves through their actions despite their lack of words.
Speech is not the sole defining characteristic of a thinking, feeling creature. Nor is silence an indication that they do not possess these qualities.
Be it a soulless arcane entity such as the pneuma, or an ephemeral life-form such as the petalouda, all seek to perpetuate their existence. To survive.
A good question. I can answer it from a theoretical standpoint, but it ultimately falls to the Bureau of the Architect to pass judgment.
Those with exceptional vision such as Hythlodaeus may be able to ascertain her true nature...
But to me, it doesn't matter. She is herself, and that is all I need to know.
Oh... You've finished already? I-I'm sorry... I was in the way...
Not to worry, my dear. They missed nothing of note, and we still have plenty of work for them to observe.
Next, we will head east to the Mourning Dew. I need to speak with some observers there.
...Was there a guiding theme or any method to the madness that is this random assortment of features?
Ah, this fellow has been the talk of the bureau! The combination of a carefree aspect and endless rows of fangs is strangely charming!
It's adorable, but beware its sneeze! Hermes went flying once!
Amazing, is it not? The ampelos─one of our newest subjects.
So, how are we coming along?
This place is Elpis! Those flowers, Elpis!
Entelechies! Like me!
They are a product of Elpis and so named for their birthplace.
A happy accident born of the hands of a former researcher who loved beautiful blossoms.
Unique for how they change color to reflect the emotional state of those nearby.
Though be it here or elsewhere, they are seldom seen in any hue save purest white...
Reflect the emotional state, you say? By what means do they achieve this?
In creation, there exists an energy wholly apart from aether. One driven by emotions.
In like manner to how we manipulate aether, this flower is subject to the influence of said energy.
While it has no will of its own, it is sensitive to the prevailing emotion in the vicinity, and reacts by altering its color and vibrancy.
Akasa? It is one of the unseen energies defined by Hannish alchemical theory. Though a gross oversimplification, some describe it as an essence influenced by feelings.
Akasa... Though I'm not familiar with the term, your description suggests it is the selfsame energy.
Dynamis, we call it.
And those entities like the Elpis flower, that have the ability to interact with this energy, converting emotions into tangible phenomena...
...Are entelechies.
That's me, that's me! An entelechy!
That you are, my dear. And no ordinary one at that, but the first possessed of free will.
Wait. A form of energy other than aether? Dynamis?
I've never heard of such a thing.
Hardly surprising. Dynamis cannot be seen, much less felt.
And though its existence has long been theorized, we had no proof until the flower's serendipitous creation.
What's more, dynamis is far weaker than aether. Under normal circumstances, its effects are drowned out by the latter.
On account of which, beings comprised of and reliant upon aether, like you and I, are unable to make practical use of dynamis.
'Tis a truly esoteric thing, known to but a select few scholars.
Intriguing... Then given the limitations you described, why create Meteion?
Our star, Etheirys, is especially rich in aether. So much so that its name is derived from it.
However, when we consider all energy in existence, here and in the vast space beyond, dynamis may account for as much as sixty-eight point three percent.
The more abundant form by far. Were we able to control it, we could open the door to limitless possibilities.
'Tis not unlike a gently flowing stream, unable to break through the dam of aether barring its path. But if we could imbue this stream with the vigor of a raging river...
...Not that I have such grand ambitions.
Nay, I merely wished to create a being that could traverse the great expanse.
The relative scarcity of aether beyond the bounds of this star was a concern, and so I looked to another source of energy by necessity.
That being dynamis. No wonder her aether is so thin.
Precisely.
Yours is thin too. Like an entelechy. Like me.
So...are we the same? Entelechies?
I think not. Your nature remains a mystery, but ere I reinforced you, you appeared to be little more than a common familiar─and a faded one at that.
That sounds more akin to the desperate flailings of a wild beast when facing imminent death.
Well, aren't we ungrateful? Mayhap I should revert you to the pathetic, faded thing you were.
A deficit of aether alone does not an entelechy make. It would, however, make it easier for you to interact with dynamis.
And limited though its influence may be, this quality could prove the difference between victory and defeat. You'd do well not to underestimate it.
Oh dear, I'd forgotten about the poor fellow. You must excuse me a moment while I go and verify a few more things.
All appears to be well. This shouldn't take long.
Entelechy or no, we're friends! In thinness!
Never before had I heard of dynamis or entelechies. I can only assume the Elpis flower was submitted to the bureau before I joined.
Not that I or anyone else would be able to make use of it even if we knew...
But it irks me to discover that there is an entirely different form of energy─and no one told me.
That personal annoyance aside, Hermes's knowledge is undeniably impressive. Given that there are none among the Fourteen who specialize in the celestial, he would be a welcome addition.
Assuming he can be persuaded to join, that is. I still can't understand his hesitation...
Oho, you wish to know why Emet-Selch was chosen for the Convocation? I should be glad to share the tale!
Ahem. It began when...
Not. Another. Word.
Lest you've forgotten, we're to learn about Hermes. Not me. My misspent youth is not your concern.
(I'll tell you the tale when we're away from sensitive ears.)
<sigh> What now?
Hmmm... If you would accompany us, I suppose you should at least know that much.
The Convocation of Fourteen is a governing body that determines myriad policies. Our goal is to ensure that all is right in creation, that our star may know a brighter future.
As the name suggests, the council is comprised of fourteen offices, each of which is held by an individual chosen for their surpassing abilities.
Depending on the office, one is required to either be an authority in a certain field, or possess skills that would facilitate the performance of their stipulated duties.
The former category includes Mitron, specialist in aquatic life; Loghrif, specialist in terrestrial life and husbandry...
Halmarut, specialist in fungal and plant life; Emmerololth, specialist in medicine and healing...
And Lahabrea, specialist in creation magicks, who has brought forth phantom beings of the highest complexity.
As for the latter category, there is Altima, advocate of the arts; Igeyorhm, champion of enlightenment and rhetoric; Pashtarot, preserver of discipline and order...
Emet-Selch, keeper of the aetherial realm─or “Underworld” in the vernacular; Fandaniel, pursuer of extant phenomena...
And Azem, traveler of the world and counselor to the people.
...What? Should I be revealing such details to you? Don't be silly. Even children know this much, and you would do well to remember it all.
Then why did you bother me!? <sigh> Honestly, I'm beginning to think you were created for the sole purpose of trying my patience...
My apologies for the wait. I have inspected the ampelos to my satisfaction.
All is well with the creature, and I daresay it won't be long ere it is released unto the world.
Another creation, however, reportedly isn't faring so well─the charybdis.
That is what we shall tend to next.
If you would follow me, my friends, we shall return to the main isle and head north.
There is a slight difference in aetheric balance between these charybdises.
By this, it may be assumed that they aren't the original creations, but their offspring.
A serpentine bird...or a winged snake?
Why is this one blue and shiny...?
