Damn these pixies and their tricks!
How in the seven hells!?
Listen well! We come in pursuit of villains who have fled to this land.
You know who and where they are. Now, show yourselves and answer me...before I lose my patience.
Owww! Stop! It hurts, it hurts!
Enough! Lift the enchantment!
Minfilia. Willful child. How many times must I come to collect you?
I won't return to Eulmore! And I won't let you hurt my friends!
What is this stance? Where did you learn it!?
No Oracle I trained would make such an unseemly show of herself!
Know your shame, girl! You are powerless! You have no life nor purpose save that which our master sees fit to permit!
Who are you to dictate her purpose? To lock her away and deny her a life!?
If she was powerless, it's because of you, you sanctimonious swine. But no longer.
Fool. Defiance only begets more suffering. It is through acceptance alone that one may find solace in this godsforsaken world.
Look─the sky!
She's done it! The Warrior of Darkness has triumphed!
General? What are our orders? What do we do!?
We do what we came to do. Subdue this rabble, and find the Warrior of Darkness.
Forward, men! Take the villains captive!
Are you deaf!?
I said─!
[The king is returned!]
[Make ready the feast!]
[Make ready the feast!]
What's...what's happening!?
Water? That wasn't there before...
[The night is delightful. Dance we shall!]
[The night is delightful. Sing we shall!]
What's the matter with you!? Get a hold of yourselves, damn it!
General, they come in greater numbers! We must retreat!
All who stand with the Warrior of Darkness shall face justice! My master demands it.
I see... Well, it's a good thing Feo Ul volunteered to become king in your stead─for all our sakes.
We are grateful for your timely aid, Feo Ul─or should I say, Your Majesty.
'Twas the first night in recent memory. We all of us but wished to make the most of it.
That's something you must remember about us fae folk. Though our existence may be eternal, we exist only for the present.
We live in the here and now, paying no mind to futures that may or may not be.
To wit, we are not driven as men are. We cannot fight for such causes as men do.
Does that mean you won't aid us against the sin eaters?
Not unless the mood takes us. But if it was to repay a debt? Well then, that's another matter.
To take back as much as is taken. To create as much as is destroyed. To give as much as is received. Such is the way of Il Mheg.
By this law, we shall lend you our strength─in return for the beautiful sky you have restored to us. In times of need, do not hesitate to call.
Silly sapling, I shall remain at your side!
Even should my body be in the castle, 'tis a simple thing to have a little part of me accompany you.
Treat them as you would your [beautiful branch].
Ne'er for a moment did I doubt that thou wouldst triumph over thy foe─yet the majesty of thine achievement delighteth me nonetheless!
Night hath returned to Il Mheg, and we stand one step closer to delivering the First from its doom, and averting the Eighth Umbral Calamity.
'Tis but a pity thou wert not present to see the fae folk put the Eulmorans to flight. 'Twas a sight to raise the spirits, I do assure thee!
Ah, but what valuable allies they might prove...were the mood only to take them.
I knew you could do it. And not only because of your blessing. You have a strength all your own, and it has seen us through many a trial.
With the Warden defeated, I believe our work here is done. It is time we were going─together, needless to say.
...To the bitter end─the fate of our two worlds being at stake, and all that.
Now then, I suggest we hurry back to the Crystarium. Much and more may have happened while we were frolicking with the fae folk.
That Ran'jit elected to pursue us makes me hopeful the city was spared Eulmore's attentions, but I would sooner see for myself.
Besides, I believe I speak for us all when I say that I've had a bellyful of Il Mheg. Let us away before the faeries think to play with us again.
All seems well at the Crystarium.
Yes. Eulmore was plainly more concerned with finding us. How flattering.
You certainly took your time. I had half-resolved to complete the task myself.
And you are?
Were one to study the annals of Garlean history, one would find yonder visage on many a page.
Though by rights its youth should long since have faded.
Well, well, we have a historian in our midst. That spares me a lengthy explanation.
I am Solus zos Galvus, founding father of the Garlean Empire. And, under various guises, the architect of myriad other imperially inclined nations.
As for my true identity...
I am Emet-Selch. Ascian.
Gaius spoke of you! A native of the Source...
Equal in rank to Lahabrea. And you came all this way just to introduce yourself to us?
Behold the sky, restored to its former glory! Have you ever seen a more affecting spectacle?
Ohhh, it is truly, deeply...
...Infuriating. Do you have any idea how much you have delayed the Rejoining?
Following the Flood, the First had been listing ever further towards the Light─towards stasis. The end was in sight!
Enter man and his indomitable spirit. He would haul the world back from the brink!
And adding his lumpen weight to the power of growth, he duly tipped the scales, if only by a fraction. Yet a fraction was enough to spoil the perfect imbalance needed to bring about a Rejoining!
Had mankind continued to live in idleness under Vauthry's rule, all the conditions would have been met...
But you had to come and ruin it all!
Thanks to your meddling, Light's supremacy is in doubt, and our painstakingly laid plans are in tatters!
Well, I should begin by thanking you for confirming Urianger's theories on the inner workings of the Calamity. He will be most pleased.
As for what happens next, might I suggest you admit defeat and walk away?
Happy to let me go, are you? Because the murderous glint in your eye suggests otherwise. Indeed, it is enough to make me think better of confronting you alone.
Look, it did cross my mind to simply side with Vauthry and kill you all.
But that's no different from what Lahabrea did. And we all know how well that ended for him.
And so, while it is liable to be troublesome, I have settled upon a different approach...
Cooperation!
I will not raise a hand to hinder your hunt for the Lightwardens. If you desire it, I will even lend you my knowledge and strength.
Since time immemorial, you and yours have labored to rejoin the thirteen shards, at the cost of countless lives.
Do you expect us to believe that your objective has suddenly changed?
Nay, our objective is the same as it ever was─though I daresay you do not know our motive.
A war waged without knowledge of the enemy is no war─it is mere bloodletting. Just once...might we not seek to find common ground?
For good or ill, I am immortal. Provided I have the inclination, I can always begin anew. Scheme and conspire to my heart's content.
But this time, I thought that I might instead try to see eye to eye. To understand what drives the hero of the Source. To determine if our goals are truly incompatible.
So come. Shed your preconceptions. See beyond the unscrupulous villains you take us for.
When all is said and done, we may find ourselves pleasantly surprised. The proud discoverers of a path of cooperation rather than opposition. Think of it.
Thou hast delivered thy proposal, and we would not dismiss it outright.
If I may offer thee counsel, however: to make thy case via an illusion reflecteth poorly upon thy sincerity.
My apologies. You will forgive me if I am not entirely at ease in the presence of a famed Ascian-slayer. I felt it only prudent to take precautions.
Nonetheless, your counsel is duly noted.
I take my leave, friends. Rest assured, we shall meet again soon.
Cooperation? He can't be serious...can he?
Well, we've certainly been given much to ponder, but first things first: we should report to the Exarch.
You can run along, Forename. We're perfectly capable of handling this little task.
In light of your recent exertions, I'd say you've earned a rest.
Go on, take yourself off to bed. We'll see you later, refreshed and ready for more.
Ah, welcome back, miss. We've been expecting you.
You will find refreshments laid out in your quarters. We hope they are to your liking.
Will you be retiring now?
Very good, miss. I bid you a pleasant evening.
“I hope the past few days have not been overly taxing. Pray take your rest and recover.”
From the Exarch, is it? With that mirror of his, he can watch your every move, you know. He'll probably think you're talking to yourself.
Still, he's keeping you well fed.
Judging by his people's faith in him, he seems to be a decent sort.
But so much about him remains shrouded in mystery. Like what was he doing back in my day? There was no such person when I was around.
A lot's happened since the Flood, though. Since I was...set adrift. I know little more than you do of this city's history and the Exarch's past.
Not that it matters. It's Emet-Selch we should be concerned about.
When our world was about to be consumed by Light, the Ascian in white appeared before us. He said that the only way for us to live on was to bring about the Rejoining.
Desperate as we were, we heeded his words, not realizing that the Flood was of the Ascians' own making.
They cannot be trusted. None of them.
But Emet-Selch had one thing right: one should not fight blindly.
That's what we did. And it cost us everything we held dear.
...You mean Seto? Well, that's... Aye. I suppose you're right.
He's done some growing. When we were traveling together, he was nowhere near as big.
And he obviously couldn't speak. I had no idea how much that medallion meant to him.
What about you, anyway? You must have a friend like Seto. Chocobo, perhaps? Come on, you tell me something for a change.
What? What about Seto? What is there to say...? All right.
He's done some growing. When we were traveling together, he was nowhere near as big.
And he obviously couldn't speak. I had no idea how much that medallion meant to him.
What about you, anyway? You must have a friend like Seto. Chocobo, perhaps? Come on, you tell me something for a change.
Oh, poor you! ...But I take your point.
Let's see, then...what's a good topic for mealtime...? Food, I suppose? I could tell you all about Voeburtite cuisine, if you like.
Oh, and there's the time we were forced to collect rare ingredients for some godsforsaken feast. If it sounds ridiculous, it's because it was.
...What? You too? Haha! Parallel worlds, eh? So what sort of things did you have to fetch, then?
Good day to you, miss. I do hope you are well rested.
The Exarch and your companions are presently gathered in the Ocular. He asks that you convene with them at your earliest convenience.
Do you have business with the Crystal Exarch? Just say the word, and I would be happy to escort you to the Ocular.
Ah, there you are. You're just in time to welcome our guest...
Please. Did I not explicitly tell you that we would be meeting again soon?
Lest you forget, I made you a promise. I have no intention of meddling with your mission. I come only to observe.
Your Exarch friend in particular has piqued my curiosity. Summoning you all like that. Most impressive.
You honestly expect us to believe you've come only to observe? Or that you might deign to lift a finger to aid our cause if called upon?
Even if there were a sliver of truth in your words, I would never accept your help. Not in my darkest hour─not after all the suffering your kind has wrought.
So petty. I meant what I said and I said what I meant.
Wage your war against the sin eaters. Put each and every Lightwarden to the sword.
Prove yourselves heroes brave and true, and I will be glad to embrace you as allies.
Allies worthy of bearing the burden of truth.
Surely such a partnership would be preferable to yet another round of fisticuffs?
...And thus did the olive branch wither and die. Pity.
Well─let no man say I did not try, futile as it was.
Though I suspect you will seek me out when you grow tired of making the same mistakes.
Difficult decisions lie ahead of you. Decisions best made with the benefit of knowledge to which only the eternal are privy.
For now, I shall resume my shadowy vigil. Whatever you choose to do, make sure it's worth watching, would you.
What was that all about?
A vain attempt to make us doubt our chosen course, most like. As if we'd believe a word that passed his lips.
Unless you think there is some truth in what he says?
If he simply meant to lead us astray, he could have done so without revealing himself. At least, not in the manner he did.
I share your suspicion, of course. But if he simply meant to lead us astray, he could have done so without revealing himself. At least, not in the manner he did.
I am sure you will. But consider for a moment: if he meant simply to lead us astray, he could have done so without revealing himself. At least, not in the manner he did.
It goes without saying that an alliance with the Ascians is out of the question. But since we have no way of knowing where they might be hiding, it seems only logical to press on with our mission─even if our enemy seems content for it to succeed.
Then let us discuss the sin eaters.
I would begin by thanking you all for your efforts thus far.
In striking down the Lightwardens of Lakeland and Il Mheg, you have accomplished more in your short time here than all of our forces managed in the last century.
That may be, but the Wardens of Kholusia, Amh Araeng, and Rak'tika remain.
Indeed. And their precise whereabouts are as yet unknown.
Which is why I propose we divide our forces and conduct a systematic survey of each region. Once we have found our quarry, we may then determine how best to proceed.
I'll take Amh Araeng, in that case. I know the lie of the land well enough.
If there are no objections, I will make for Kholusia. I have connections there both in and around Eulmore that may prove useful.
Then I would ask that you journey to Rak'tika.
There you will find Y'shtola. With her assistance, I doubt the Warden will evade your grasp for long.
Is Y'shtola the conjurer you and Urianger used to talk about?
That's right. Though we haven't spoken much since she left for the forest.
I fear I may be to blame for that. I had every intention of relaying the news of your arrival, but she is...disinclined to speak with me.
You have visited her, have you not? Might I trouble you to...?
'Twould be no trouble.
My thanks. While you are all out in the field, I shall be here attending to business. I had somewhat fancifully contemplated joining the search myself, but other matters demand my attention.
What's that?
A missive from Lord Vauthry. He invites me to join him in Eulmore to discuss the recent conflict at Lydha Lran.
And? Did he even bother to offer any bait? It's obviously a trap.
I should be surprised if it were not. Nevertheless, I must seize this opportunity to speak with him, even if only a few words are exchanged.
Though my power will be much diminished so far from the tower, it is a risk I am willing to take.
Master Alphinaud─might I impose upon you to accompany me to Eulmore, prior to beginning your reconnaissance?
Of course.
Then let us make ready. Safe travels to you all.
Before you leave, I would make a request of you.
There is a church─or rather, the ruins of a church─at Fort Jobb. Might I ask that you go there before seeking out Y'shtola?
It was a place where people once gathered to worship the Light. Alas, it has long since fallen into disuse.
Yet within that hall there remains a tablet whose writings I believe may prove of use to Y'shtola. At the very least, such a relic would make a suitable gift for your reunion.
A most considerate proposal. Very well. Ere we depart to Rak'tika, we shall journey unto Fort Jobb that we might secure this relic.
Here amidst these ruins we will find the Church of the First Light, and within that hallowed hall the tablet we seek.
Time is of the essence, my friend. Let us be quick.
At the height of Lakeland's prosperity, these sites served not as man's final bastion, but as testament to his ingenuity and architectural prowess.
The Church of the First Light was responsible for many such marvels, building majestic chapels in every corner of the realm.
Alas, the Flood with its inexorable tides would drown nigh every one, and did all but put an end to the religion as a whole. For the creatures which then did rise from that fulgent deluge were seen as agents of divine punishment, sent to devour sin and sinner both─whence came the name of “sin eater.”
The people were lost, seemingly forsaken by their god.
Yet where there is light, there hath ever been shade, and 'twas in the dark they sought solace.
The most devout of these worshipers of shadow did then migrate to the Rak'tika Greatwood. But that is a tale for another time.
For now, let us find what remaineth of the chapel here.
...Aye. This is indeed the church we seek.
It's surprisingly intact.
What little is left of the churches I've seen until now has always borne the scars of decades of disuse.
Its subterranean construction hath done much to protect the hall from the ravages of time. Yet the reason for its remarkable preservation may be deduced from its decoration.
As faith in the Light did wane, so rose reverence for the Dark.
...And its followers did want for places of worship. To be plain, the standards which do adorn these walls belong not to those who built them, but to worshipers of the Dark─the Night's Blessed.
...Who subsequently migrated to Rak'tika, yes?
Indeed. 'Twas beneath the shaded boughs of the Rak'tika Greatwood that they finally found sanctuary.
Oft and many times did Eulmore make spurious overtures of friendship unto them, but they are no fools.
The Exarch knoweth full well that Y'shtola, in her seclusion, doth labor to learn all she may of the Blessed and their past. 'Tis why he sent us here, I now see.
The tablet of which he spoke no doubt provideth a glimpse into the history that she so yearneth to comprehend.
Well then─we'd better hurry up and find it.
Were the tablet a fragment of holy scripture, 'twould most assuredly rest here on this altar. Yet this would, I presume, also have been where the Blessed placed the Font of Seeing used in the practice of their faith... Whither, then, would they have set the tablet?
Can anyone tell me what this infernal tablet even looks like?
I can barely see my hand in front of my face. If only that torch were a little closer...
I can barely see my hand in front of my face. If only that torch were a little closer...
Within the altar, thou sayest?
Naught escapeth thine eye, 'twould seem. This is indeed the tablet we seek.
Curious... These engravings predate the Night's Blessed. If I am not mistaken, they are writ in the script of the ancient empire of Ronka, whose capital once stood in the midst of what is now Rak'tika.
'Twill be no small matter to decipher them... Hm! A fine gift for our seeker of truth. 'Tis plain the Exarch understandeth Y'shtola only too well...
But come─let us quit this place and make ready for our journey into the woods.
Ere we depart, there is a custom of the Night's Blessed which I feel compelled to elucidate.
As one might expect, they deem Light to be abhorrent, and everything it touches befouled. Thus do they take the utmost pains to protect all they can from its taint─including their very names.
To speak plain, it is the belief of the Blessed that one's own name must ne'er be uttered in the light of the everlasting day. Yet this commandment precludeth not the use of another's. Thus do parents protect their children, and, in rare cases, masters their disciples.
So it is that Y'shtola hath taken the name of Master Matoya. Lest we offend them, I bid you speak not her true name in the Blessed's presence.
With that in mind, let us speak with the guard who keepeth vigil at the Greatwood's border.
