Long live...Lord Vauthry... Long live...Lord Vauthry...
Ah. Good of you to join us. I was debating whether to warn you, but it's too late now.
I take it you noticed the people behaving strangely along the path? It's more of the same here.
Y'shtola and Alisaie are investigating as we speak. Let's wait and see what they have to say.
Strange. Passing strange...
By their behavior, we may safely assume that they are under Vauthry's mind control.
Yet the extent of the effect seemeth to vary dramatically between subjects.
'Tis far too pronounced to be attributed simply to the vagaries of innate magical resistance.
Curiouser and curiouser...
We met with no trouble en route. My thanks for securing the way.
But given the state of the townsfolk, I see we were never in any danger of being recognized.
What can you tell us from here?
I sense a powerful eater...in the uppermost reaches of the city...
But there's something different about it. Its Light is...impure.
We need to get closer.
Ohhh! So that one's Alphinaud! ...Unless you're triplets?
Kai-Shirr! What are you doing here?
While I was scouting the area, I noticed a suspicious figure skulking about.
So I accosted him─only to have him call me “Alphinaud.” I thought it best to bring him along.
You see...that informant who's been feeding secrets to the Crystarium...it's me.
See, after you saved my life in Eulmore, I thought about going somewhere far away. But I couldn't just leave, not without paying you back.
So I decided to stay here─keep an eye on things. And whenever I spotted something strange, I shared it with your friends.
That took no small amount of courage. Well done.
I assume you saw what happened here.
Right, so, an airship flew in a bit ago, and not long after, Vauthry starts ranting and raving. You could hear him from all the way out here!
Geezer was doing his nut! Shouting and screaming like someone had nicked his pie!
'Tis like the airship bore the soldiers sent to thwart our efforts in Amh Araeng.
So eventually the yelling dies down...and then this hot, sticky wind comes blowing through.
Now that's when everyone went funny. Everyone but me. Well, me and a couple of newcomers, though even they started mumbling about Vauthry after a while. Not as bad as the rest, mind you.
Newcomers...
There's something I need Ryne to see.
This was among the townsfolk's food stores.
Oh, that's just meol. Eulmore doles the stuff out.
No! It...it couldn't be...
I─ I know what it is.
It's sin eater. Meol is made out of sin eater.
So it is.
In limited quantities, it may have little effect on an average individual.
Yet if one were to consume it regularly, over a period of several years, I suspect it would do far, far more than merely nourish the body...
That Vauthry wieldeth power over sin eaters is known. Could it be that those who partake of their flesh do thereby render themselves susceptible to his influence?
'Twould serve to explain why the town's newer arrivals succumbed less quickly than those raised on a diet of meol.
He's been rounding up sin eaters and feeding them to people!? Altering them mouthful by mouthful─all to stop them answering back!?
There are desperate souls out there killing themselves to escape turning! This is unforgivable! An atrocity!
These sin eaters... What if they are not simply “rounded up”?
Do you remember what we were told when first we came to the city?
“Many enter, but none leave...”
Let us put an end to it. To this “paradise” built upon the bones of the poor.
Vauthry's deeds are beyond justification. Beyond forgiveness. Evil.
It's highly probable that the Lightwarden is waiting for us somewhere in there, and I'm all for going after it.
But our enemies know our faces. They know that we are coming. And they will not let us through without a fight. Like it or not, the time for stealth is passed.
Now, my friend. If you would be so good as to lead the charge.
When we step through the gates, we shall find not the place of hedonistic pleasure we remember, but a battlefield.
If you are prepared for this, then let us sally forth!
Ugh... I can feel it... A dark presence in my domain!
Ah! It's them! The villains who would sow chaos in my perfect paradise!
Keep them away from me! I command you, keep them awaaaaaay!
