Reinforcements required. <buzzzzzz> Deploying auxiliary drones.
Deploying rock biters. <buzzzzzz> Initiating obstacle removal protocol.
Those blades could do some serious damage.
As much as I would like to examine this place, we should press on.
Indeed. Perhaps there will be time later.
'Tis easy to see why they say this place was “bled dry.”
No matter the odds, life always finds a way...
That a sandworm could have grown to such proportions...
I'm glad we don't have to face it alive.
That dragon formed from the mist!
Another of Allag's pitiable slaves, I'd wager.
Please be safe, Alphinaud...
Dragons at Allagan ruins are seldom a coincidence.
That there in the distance...
That dragons was as much mist as it was flesh.
Ah! There you are!
Between contending with bloodthirsty beasts and sand in my...every conceivable place, I had begun to despair of finding you again.
Do you recognize the crashed ship over yonder?
Mistress Alisaie and I briefly inspected it. It is the vessel that bore Master Alphinaud away.
But there was no sign of him. Nor of Maxima and his people.
Between contending with bloodthirsty beasts and sand in my...every conceivable place, I'm quite ready to leave this wasteland. But first things first...
Do you see the crashed ship over yonder?
Judging by its class, it must be the vessel that bore Master Alphinaud away.
Warmachina. It would seem they were involved in a struggle.
There may be clues. We should split up and search the area.
There's no sign of Alphinaud. Nor of Maxima and his people.
Hm. These were no ordinary soldiers.
Over here!
The insignia on this man's uniform identifies him as one of the Emperor's personal guard.
Handpicked soldiers answering only to the royal family...
That would explain why all the casualties are Garlean. They were fighting their own.
You're saying the Emperor was behind all this? That Alphinaud is his prisoner?
Aye, we must not jump to conclusions. Besides, Alphinaud is more than capable of looking after himself, is he not?
I suggest we return to Doma to consider our options. Whatever happened here, Master Alphinaud is long gone, and any subsequent search may safely be left in the hands of the shinobi.
<whistle>
Where in the world are you, Brother? If you die on me, I will never let you hear the end of it.
Well, that was a decidedly uneventful journey. I almost found myself hoping for a sandstorm.
Joking aside, I'd say our birds are due a good brush down and a treat or two, wouldn't you?
I had hoped to steal a moment's rest after our little outing, but it would seem duty calls. A foreign emissary arrived in my absence.
Do not let us keep you then.
Actually...I was wondering if you might join me. I cannot think of a guest who could fail to be impressed by the presence of the Scions─at least, none I should be happy to receive.
Of course─if you think it will be useful.
Thank you. Let us return to my manor, then.
Lord Hien is expecting you. May I show you in?
Lyse! What brings you here?
Oh, Alliance business. We have a request for Doma─well, Hien.
But that can wait. They told me you were out searching for Alphinaud. Did you manage to pick up his trail?
Well, if he wasn't at the crash site, he might still have escaped. We have to keep searching!
And we will. Alphinaud embarked on this journey as an emissary of Doma, and I hold myself responsible for his safe return. I will have our shinobi in the provinces search for him as a matter of urgency.
Chin up, Alisaie. You'll get to admonish your brother for his recklessness yet.
Well, someone has to do it.
I'm sure he's going to be fine. There is one thing I'm not sure about, though.
You said it was the Emperor's personal guard that attacked Alphinaud's airship.
But the Populares would never have been able to arrange the prisoner exchange without Varis's blessing. So why would he sabotage his own mission?
They may not have been acting on Varis's orders. The guard answer not only to him, but to his family. The crown prince, included.
When Yotsuyu summoned Tsukuyomi, Asahi was quick to proclaim that a Doman citizen had violated the terms of our agreement. That the negotiations had failed.
And it is this version of events that is now being repeated across Garlemald. To hear the tale, one would think the prisoner exchange never took place. Plainly, someone is manipulating matters from the shadows. Most likely Zenos─or whoever it is that wears his face.
Whichever Ascian, you mean. We all know the nature of our adversary.
The servants of chaos are true to their name. Their meddling has cost Doma a chance at peace.
Whoever it was that loosed his personal guard, the Emperor cannot be ignorant of these developments. We must proceed on the assumption that our treaty is indeed in tatters.
But come, Lyse, you have journeyed far. Let me hear your petition.
Right, so, the big news is that Ala Mhigo has agreed to join the Eorzean Alliance.
To make it official, and discuss where we all go from here, the leaders of the five nations are planning to hold a meeting, and we were hoping you might come too.
We've already seen what we can achieve when we work together, and the Alliance hopes to work even more closely in future. They think it's our best hope of keeping the Garleans in check─and I agree.
As do I. By coordinating our efforts in the east and west, we may be able to discourage them from committing their forces to a single front.
I accept your invitation. I must, however, ask for time to attend to some pressing matters here.
In light of recent events, the risk of imperial reprisals is greater than ever, and I would not leave Doma unguarded. Ere I depart, I must shore up her defenses.
Understood. I'll let the Alliance know.
We'll wait to hear from you before setting a date. The meeting's to be held at the Royal Palace in Ala Mhigo, incidentally. Do you remember the way?
Well enough. Please assure my hosts that I will not keep them waiting any longer than I have to.
Consider it done! And thank you for agreeing to come. If we all put our heads together, we're sure to find the best way forward. For everyone.
My advisors and I will presently convene to discuss the matter of Doma's defenses. You are welcome to stay, of course...
Had you not offered, I would have requested leave to remain. Where the Ascians are concerned, naught may be left to chance.
As ever, we would benefit from your experience.
I thank you for coming, Lyse─even if it was on official business. I had hoped there might be time to show you the land you helped to save, but I will settle for a fleeting visit if needs must.
There never does seem to be enough time for anything, does there... But I did get to see a little of the enclave. You've made excellent progress, I must say! And soon you'll have the chance to see how we're getting on too. Till the meeting, then!
...Um, Forename? I was wondering if I might have a word with you before I go. In private.
Go on, my friend. I will send for Hakuro and the others in the meantime.
Great. I'll wait for you at the docks.
Thanks for coming. Knowing you, you've probably guessed what I wanted to talk about.
Alisaie. She's acting as if everything's all right, but it's clear she's barely coping.
The Alisaie I know is overbearing, willful, and reckless─and that's fine. It's how she deals with feeling weak. She has to keep moving, or she's afraid she'll fall apart.
...A lot like me.
But the thing about people like us is that we need someone to keep an eye on us. I had Papalymo, and now I have my friends in the Resistance. And Alisaie has you and the Scions.
Before you start, I'm not saying you're neglecting her. I'm sure you aren't, and I'm sure you won't─but she's a good friend, and when I see her like this, I can't help worrying. So please, make sure you give her all the support she needs, all right?
Thank you, Forename. It goes without saying, but if there's anything I can do, you only need to ask.
Well, I'd best be off. See you in Ala Mhigo!
Lord Hien is expecting you. May I show you in?
Ah, there you are, my friend. Everyone has assembled, so let us begin.
If we are to ready ourselves for invasion, we shall need manpower, provisions, and time. All of which are in notably short supply.
Candid as ever, Yugiri. And correct, I concede. Fortunately, I have an idea.
'Tis plain no single nation can stand against the might of the Empire.
And it was only with the aid of others that Doma succeeded in winning her freedom. So I mean to take a leaf out of our Eorzean friends' book and form an alliance of our own.
In addition to those with whom we already share an understanding, I would reach out to Hingashi and Sui-no-Sato, and further afield, to the myriad peoples of Nagxia and Dalmasca.
I am under no illusion─not all will answer the call. Yet disparate though we may be, we are united in our desire for freedom.
If our neighbors could be made to see what is at stake─Ascian machinations and all─cooperation need not be so far-fetched a notion.
...It may even seem practical.
Under the guidance of our former leader, Master Louisoix, we once strove to unite the fractious city-states of Eorzea. I daresay that experience shall be of use in your endeavor.
We should be glad of your wisdom.
For the record, I would have been in favor of this plan, even if it hadn't been my grandfather's, but I have to ask: how will we secure the time to carry it out?
Not that anyone has forgotten, but the Garleans have airships. Lots and lots of airships. Should they catch wind of our plan, they could send an armada to overwhelm us before our alliance had even begun to take shape.
...Not if we deny them access to the skies.
During our time in the Burn, the Warrior of Light and I chanced upon some Allagan ruins.
Oh?
As such ruins go, they were not particularly unusual, but something about the surrounding land struck me as odd. Faint though it was, its aetherial residue was uncannily similar to that of Azys Lla. Identical, in fact.
For locations so far removed to share a single aetheric signature is all but impossible. I conclude therefore that the Allagans created the floating continent with land taken from the Burn.
While that is a most intriguing theory, I fail to see what relevance it has to Doma's defense.
Azys Lla was enclosed in a powerful energy barrier, impenetrable even to an Agrius-class battleship.
It occurred to me that those ruins may have enjoyed similar protection. I have no proof, but the Warrior of Light did report seeing a structure resembling other known Allagan field generators.
All right, but even if we could put up such an energy barrier, it surely wouldn't extend beyond the limits of the Burn. So what's to stop the Garleans flying around it?
...Fuel. The Dalmascan capital, Rabanastre, was a key imperial refueling point in the East. By laying waste to it as a lesson to the rest, the Empire greatly hindered its own operations in the region.
If an imperial fleet were to advance upon Doma, it would now have little choice but to travel as the crow flies─over the Burn.
I see!
A word of caution. Even assuming the generator still functions, raising a barrier of such a scale will require a prodigious amount of energy.
And few places are so bereft of suitable crystals as the Burn.
Hm... A source of energy.
Tell me, did the Allagans make a habit of launching things into the sky?
A curious question. Besides Azys Lla, I know of only one other notable instance: the red moon Dalamud, whose fall triggered the Calamity.
Just the two occasions, you say... Then I believe I may have a solution to our energy problem.
...You do?
I may. To find out for sure, we would need to visit the Azim Steppe.
...Which would, I now see, present the perfect opportunity to discuss an alliance with the Xaela tribes. How very neat! What say you, then? Shall we see whither this road leads?
It is settled, then. I will journey to the Azim Steppe with the Scions. Yugiri and Hakuro─I leave our other neighbors to you.
My apologies, but I won't be joining you.
I am no aetherologist, and what skills I do possess are unlikely to be of any great use to the mission. But more importantly, it seems to me that the ruins in the Burn warrant attention.
And so, while you are away securing an energy source, I will engage our friends at Garlond Ironworks to undertake a complete overhaul of the field generators. We'll need them in good working order if our plan is to succeed. I trust there are no objections?
Have care on the Steppe! From what I hear, the Xaela like fighting with friends almost as much as foes. Good luck!
Hm! I'm sure she'd love the Burn. Joking aside, I was planning to enlist her help with organizing everything─but we'll still need a Scion on the ground. Don't worry, I'm sure you'll manage without me. Good luck!
Just the three of us, then. Very well. Shall we make first for Reunion?
So this is the Azim Steppe... The tales do not do it justice.
If you think the view is impressive here, wait until we reach higher ground.
Actually...seeing as it's your first visit, permit me to show you my favorite spot.
Ahhh, I will never tire of this vista! The endless fields, the boundless skies... 'Tis a sight to make a man forget his cares.
But not his purpose, I trust.
Might this be a fitting moment to tell us what we are doing here?
Of course. During my time with the Mol, I learned some few myths of this land. One goes thus...
“In the distant past, when all seemed doomed, a wayfaring soul came unto the steppe. Venturing into the northern crag, he received of Nhaama a sliver of her essence─a shard of the shining moon─and with it clove the tainted land from the earth.
“The end thus averted, to these fields did the wayfaring soul return. And venturing once more into the northern crag, he buried the shard, and made unto the heavens an offering of blood.”
A tainted land cloven from the earth, and an offering of blood to the heavens... Azys Lla and Dalamud.
That was my thinking, yes.
And you believe that yonder mountains hide an artifact possessed of sufficient power to raise Azys Lla up to the heavens. ...I suppose that might suffice.
Worth a closer look, would you say?
I would.
From here, we shall travel to Mol Iloh. There we may ask Cirina about the particulars of the myth, and raise the matter of an alliance with the rulers of the Steppe.
Hien, Forename. I am glad of your visit, and the opportunity to welcome a new friend. How may we serve you?
There is a matter I would discuss with the Mol. It concerns not only the peoples of the Steppe, but of every land in the Far East.
A shard of the shining moon left behind by a wayfaring soul... And you need this to protect our lands?
I do. My friends and I wish to find the shard and ascertain the extent of its power. Will you tell me more of the place where it lies buried? This “northern crag”?
...If that is your wish. In the mountains to the north, there is a cavern called the House of the Crooked Coin. Inside this cavern are pillars of stone that legend holds to be the source of Nhaama's power. There, I believe, you will find what you seek.
Ah, yes, I know the place. 'Tis a brisk walk from here. And what are your thoughts on an alliance?
Should the Empire return, our lands will be engulfed in a storm of conflict whether we will it or no. If we do not stand together, we will fall apart. This I believe with all my heart. However...
...However?
Among the tribes of the Steppe, there are those who revere Nhaama above all else. To them, the pillars are sacred, and not to be disturbed.
Should you proceed as you propose, such tribes are like to spurn an alliance, prompting others to follow their example. That is my concern.
But it is by no means certain that the pillars will provide the power you seek. Ere you risk the ire of the followers of Nhaama, might you not first visit the House of the Crooked Coin? If all is as you hope, we may then consider how best to earn their blessing.
I thank you for your counsel. We will do as you suggest. I have no desire to give offense to those with whom I would join hands.
Thank you for your understanding. Though the Mol may reign over the Steppe today, this decision will shape the days to come, and we would not force others into war against their will.
Nor we. A hundredfold stronger are they who choose to fight of their own accord.
It seems the time is come to put my skills to use. Pray lead the way to the House of the Crooked Coin.
Such an abundance of aether!
Are we in luck?
We are. This is an Allagan artifact, most likely built to regulate the flow of aether.
I strongly suspect the ancients used it to stem the flow from here to the Burn. That would explain how they were able to untether what became Azys Lla from its surroundings.
But were we to throw open the floodgates, the resultant deluge would surely be sufficient to raise our wall. And in restoring the flow, we may also restore life to the wasteland.
Hm...?
What is it?
While the device itself harbors a surfeit of aether, the opposite is true of the surrounding area...
An effect of regulation, perhaps? A similar phenomenon seemed to be occurring in Doma...
Whatever the explanation, the answer will not reveal itself here. We have seen what we needed to see. Let us return to Mol Iloh.
You found that which you seek, then? Great indeed is the Dusk Mother's power. If naught less will suffice to protect our lands, the blessing of the other tribes must now be sought.
Of course. But to which tribes should we appeal?
There are many who worship Nhaama, but none are so fervent in their faith as the Dotharl. Their consent shall be the key.
The Dotharl. Lyse spoke of them. A warlike tribe possessed of unique customs and beliefs. I sense their cooperation will not be easily won.
Nay, but it will be well worth the effort. The Dotharl fear nothing─death least of all─and our alliance would be greatly strengthened by their presence. Let us go to Dotharl Khaa and treat with their khatun, Sadu.
You again? Other matters demand our time, khagan. Unless it is battle you seek?
Alas not. Quite the opposite, in fact...
Talking, always talking... You say the pillars hold great power? Of course they do. They are the source of Nhaama's strength.
To the Dotharl, no place is more sacred, and we will make ash of any who would defile it. Though I see this is not your wish.
You see the wisdom of our proposition, then? You will join hands with us?
I said nothing of joining hands. You wish to wield Nhaama's power to defend these lands, and this I will allow. But for leaving the Steppe to fight the men in iron I would have something in return.
...Namely?
Namely battle. With you, khagan!
The Naadam ended ere it began. I would face you again, alone, without distractions.
Defeat me─prove yourself the stronger─and you shall have the Dotharl as your allies. Surely, these are agreeable terms?
Well, this is a...not wholly unexpected turn of events─though I had assumed I would be the one required to fight. Alas, the khatun has made her choice.
Ha! It shall be a battle the Steppe shall not soon forget!
So you say. But the fire in your eyes tells another tale. You want this as much as I do!
Ahhh, already my soul burns brighter! Prepare yourself, khagan, and await me outside the khaa. I will gather my witnesses and join you anon.
Yes, this spot shall serve as well as any. I shall enjoy this, khagan!
Is this truly necessary? Have you no peaceable way of making decisions?
Speak not of peace. You stand before proud warriors of the Dotharl. In the heat of battle do our souls burn brightest!
We lay low the strong that we may rise higher!
That is our way─the way of might! There is no other!
...Well, they do not want for conviction.
Indeed. It's what makes them such dangerous enemies...and such useful allies.
Enough talk! It is time to fight!
Come, khagan! Let us dance!
You are strong indeed... A worthy champion of the Steppe...
But you are mistaken if you think I will fall so easily!
Ahhh, fighting you is pure bliss!
Such sweet pleasure, I will not suffer to end so soon!
...Well? Do not tell me that is all you have?
My soul demands more, khagan! Give me more!
<grunt> My arms...grow heavy... My eyes dim...
But so long as my lifeblood flows...I will fight on!
Yaaaaaarrrgh!
Come! Let us begin anew!
This is the reckoning, khagan! One must fall!
Yes! YES! Not since the Naadam has my soul burned so!
Come! We have only just begun!
Enough. You were not granted leave to set the Steppe ablaze.
Well, well! The sun has come out to play!
Begone, moonstruck Oronir! I am busy.
Fool of a Dotharl. Have you forgotten the face of your master already? The Sun will never set! From his seat on high, he reigns over all, now and forever!
Yet what should he find here but a battle to determine the fate of the Steppe─a battle waged without his blessing! This will not stand!
You, Doman. You who come to petition the warriors of this land forget that all Nhaama's children are wards of the Oronir. As first among my brothers, your petition is mine alone to judge.
These words are as wind from a horse's backside. Plentiful. But your axe sings more sweetly. Let her speak for you.
Insolent child. You will learn your place.
Forgive me, Brother Magnai, but we have an arrangement with the Dotharl. We will not abide any interruptions.
So be it. The Sun will pass judgment on all. Daidukul─join me.
The Sun is in good company. We may dance alone.
Beg not for mercy, for you will have none. Bear witness to the power and the glory of Azim!
Constantly at each other's throats, like rabid...dogs. Gods, I'm turning into her.
Ahem. I have not the patience for this. But if we must fight, let us at least be brief. Come!
Come! Plead your case unto the Sun!
Oh, we shall endeavor to be most convincing!
