Save your greetings. If you're looking for a hired blade, then you'll have to look elsewhere. After the day I've had, the only company I crave is the squat, silent type─the type that has a handle and holds no less than a pint of ale.
...Hm? You wish to hear my tale? I warn you, 'tis no stirring epic─but as you asked... My employer─a Lalafellin lad─wished to pay a visit to a peddler who deals in some manner of special sand. I forget what it was called but 'tis apparently worth a small fortune. Anyway, when we arrived, the man claimed his stock had been stolen by bandits.
Determined not to return empty-handed, we crept into the bandits' stronghold and set about locating the stolen goods. Long story short, alarums were raised, rogues were awoken, and we fled in a blind panic. I was separated from my employer in the confusion and I've not seen him since.
Hm? Oh. A friend of yours, is he?
Then you'd best be prepared for the worst. 'Tis just possible the poor sod may yet be lost in the old Amajina mythril mine...but I fear the bandits will have caught up with him by now.
How could I be so stupid? Sneaking into a bandit's lair... It's...it's just...not the sort of thing I do! And now I'm going to die for it!
No. No, I-I just need to calm down. I can do this. I can be brave. I'm going to stand up, and I'm going to walk out of here. Here we go!
YEEEAAARGH! I'm-sorry-I'm-sorry-I'm-sorry! Please don't kill me! I promise I'll leave and never come...back?
Forename!? Is it really you!? B-But how did you find me? Can you...smell fear?
A-Actually, ignore that smell. Ahem! I expect you're wondering why I'm here? Well, I was just in the process of retrieving some stolen aethersand which Biggs and I need for our research, as it happens. It was, I concede, perhaps a touch foolish─and very nearly fatal─but I did succeed in snatching the stuff before my bodyguard ran away and several dozen bandits came piling after me with knives and axes and what looked very much like a plank with a rusty nail in it.
A-Anyway, the important thing is that the stolen aethersand is right here in my po─ In my─ Oh. Oh dear. It must have fallen out when I was, um...taking evasive maneuvers. It seems I won't be leaving this infernal place for a while yet...
...You'll find the aethersand in my stead?
Oh, thank the gods! You're a true friend, Forename! I hope the search doesn't prove too troublesome─the bandits don't seem to care much for visitors...
Forename! Have you had any luck locating the aethersand?
Yes, that's it! I must return to the workshop at once and tell Biggs the wonderful news!
What's that? You're also on a mission to collect aethersand? And you're working with the chief? A “treasure trove of Allagan knowledge,” you say? ...I see.
Then you should really be the one to have this. Biggs and I are far from exhausting all possible avenues of airship innovation, but it sounds as if your problem can't be solved by any other means.
This expedition of yours sounds jolly interesting, I must say... I'm half-inclined to join you. In fact─I think I will! Any venture worth the chief's time must be worth a look!
Right! I'm more than ready to leave this awful place behind! And you should return to Mor Dhona with that aethersand before there are any more, um...little mishaps. Be sure to keep a close eye on your pockets, Forename!
Ah, Forename, you have returned. I take from your presence that you were successful in procuring us some aethersand. Tell me, which variety did you find?
...I see! Two varieties. Well, that is two more than could reasonably be expected─and two less than I had hoped you would say. Forgive my flippancy. You have done well, truly. If all goes to plan, we need no longer fear death by fire or earth.
Master Garlond─if you would be so kind as to prepare the relevant crystals.
I shall set to work immediately. Truth be told, I've been looking forward to this. One does not encounter materials like these every day.
Speaking of which, how in the seven hells did you find them? Mistake me not, old friend─I know only too well how capable you are, but aethersand isn't something you simply find gathering dust at the back of a merchant's rare gem cabinet.
...You had help from Biggs and Wedge?
Hmph! Trust them to design a revolutionary new engine the moment I turn my back. How's a genius meant to rest on his laurels when his employees are so damnably inventive, eh? And now they're determined to join us, are they? Typical!
I jest, of course. It will be good to have them around. Still, as a matter of professional pride, let's endeavor to procure the two remaining varieties of aethersand before they arrive, shall we? Tell me, Rammbroes─have we any information on where the water- and wind-aspected types might be hiding?
Naught as of yet, but...I have made certain arrangements. We shall soon see if my efforts have borne fruit.
Forgive me for observing, but you seem less than enthusiastic about that prospect. If there's a complication, I'd rather we discuss it now than risk jeopardizing the expedition.
<sigh> Mayhap an explanation is in order. But first, let us savor the preliminary victory that Forename has won for our cause, if only for a moment.
Yes, yes...I must speak of the arrangements I made to acquire the two remaining varieties of aethersand.
Some days ago, I asked a Sharlayan acquaintance of mine to travel to Gridania and there gather the necessary materials. Since that time, however, I have heard nary a whisper from him.
To be frank, this lack of communication is not entirely uncharacteristic, but I cannot discount the possibility that something ill has befallen the man.
Alas, we do not have time to investigate his fate. As I have mentioned before, the more we delay our expedition, the more likely it is that the Crystal Tower's secrets will fall into the wrong hands. Therefore, I would entrust you with the same mission I assigned to my friend. Travel to the Black Shroud, and seek out Parsemontret, the master of the markets in Gridania. If anyone knows where aethersand might be bought, it is he.
Yes? ...I'm sorry? Did you say you wish to purchase aethersand? My dear fellow, have you the faintest idea of the rarity of the material you seek? Why, I have not seen so much as a grain of aethersand in these markets for many a long year.
I could tell you where one might mine the ore from which the water-aspected variety of the abrasive is derived, but only a desperate fool would willingly set foot in the place.
...You seem undeterred.<sigh> Very well.
Are you familiar with Urth's Gift? That is where the ore is to be found─in an area inhabited by a particularly pernicious hog. Should you encounter the betusked nightmare, you will know that you are in the right place...albeit at the wrong time. Farewell!
