Mistress Surname! ...Our findings, you say? Well, there is something of a tale there...
No sooner had we chanced upon a promising-looking sheaf of letters than we were ambushed from the shadows by great white beasts.
'Twould seem the heretics foresaw our coming, and left behind their pets to discourage further investigation. Several of our number were badly wounded...
...And you cannot carry out your duties until the creatures are slain. We have not the time to wait for reinforcements─let us deal with these “pets” ourselves, Forename.
The beasts are slain, then? My thanks, Mistress Surname... We may return to our duty without fear of a mauling.
You wish to track down Lady Iceheart, is this not so? The records we discovered ere those beasts mauled my comrades appeared to be some manner of correspondence.
We had not the luxury of perusing their contents more closely─intent as we were on surviving an onslaught of fang and claw─but I'd wager those epistles contain more than friendly salutations betwixt lonely heretics.
My interrogation of the patrol proved fruitless. Either we divine some clue from these letters, or we wander the snowfields and pray that the gods lead us right to Iceheart's door. 'Tis hardly a choice at all...
Have you recovered much of the heretics' correspondence?
Splendid. Added to the contributions from Master Leveilleur and Ser Estinien, we now have more than a dozen letters.
What have we here, then... Hmmm. Every one of these pages is a record of the dealings betwixt the Gorgagne Mills heretics and their fellows in the Akh Afah Amphitheatre.
There are requests for foodstuffs, clothing, and all manner of provisions. Iceheart's followers must yet inhabit the ruins we had thought abandoned...
The Akh Afah Amphitheatre... The very place where you witnessed the manifestation of the primal Shiva, was it not?
If that is our destination, the journey will be long indeed. The amphitheatre lies on the other side of a treacherous tract of ice and snow that cannot swiftly be crossed.
Then we must place our faith in the Aethernet. As you may recall, our dear friend Moenbryda succeeded in recreating the Akh Afah beacon after it had been destroyed by Lady Iceheart. At the time, it was assumed that the resultant aetheryte would only be temporarily viable, but given that the heretics of Gorgagne Mills seem to have been in regular contact with their brethren at the amphitheatre, I'll wager it still functions. I suggest we make for the aetheryte within Snowcloak without delay.
Correct me if I am wrong, Estinien, but in the course of mapping the Snowcloak tunnel system, a passage was discovered leading out into the western highlands, was it not? Might it be possible for us to reach the aetheryte from this side of the wall?
It should. House Durendaire posted soldiers at the western highlands entrance after the tunnels were cleared, but they will not deny us entry.
