One for me!
Those are dragon scales.
Yes─such materials are vital to their most pressing research.
And we are fortunate to have them. Our experiments are so close to bearing fruit...
Soon we will have a talisman capable of nullifying the aetheric emissions from that accursed tower!
Did...did I say something wrong? Are you not here with Varshahn? Wait, who are you people?
Of course! You're the one Krile sent─the “Warrior of Light” we've been waiting for!
This is a day of celebration! Praise be to Cinduruva!
The winds have shifted. I feel it! The end to our toil is near!
I feel it, too. My head hasn't been this clear in days...
Tell me, how did you acquire those scales?
Curious that it concerns you so.
But worry not. They were freely given by the dragon with whom our satrap has forged a lawful pact.
...That is well.
You must be quite familiar with dragonkin, yes?
Is this their congealed blood I see on your weapon?
Hrm... Speaking of dragon blood...you yourself have been infused with it, have you not?
I should like to draw a phial or two, if so!
Now, see here...!
Come along, come along! I must insist that you visit our laboratory!
Cease your shoving, or so help me—
Oh dear, your poor companion. What with the new scales and your timely arrival, my colleagues are a little giddy with excitement.
No harm will come to him, I promise! Meanwhile, shall we find a quiet place to talk?
As you may have guessed, I am Nidhana─the alchemist who sent the request to your Mistress Krile. We have workshops across the nation collaborating on this research project, but it is here─at the Great Work─where I collate our results.
Come with me, all of you, and I can explain the crux of the situation.
Oh, for the days when I enjoyed such fervent adoration. But on this occasion I am glad to entrust the burden of popularity to Estinien.
'Tis said that shellfish is ideal for those who have suffered blood loss. Mayhap we should have acquired some from Matsya...
Pray pay me no mind. I am here that I may be of service. Nothing more.
Allow me to thank you for answering our call. Many towers have appeared around the world, and we are grateful that you would assist us with ours.
Though Krile herself is tied up with another investigation, Forename is an eminently capable substitute, and we will spare no effort to aid you.
So, if I understand correctly, you seek to make talismans that can nullify aetheric emissions.
Indeed we do. As you know, the tower emits vast concentrations of aether; one cannot go anywhere near it without being tempered.
As such, we can only study the tower from afar, and are powerless to deal with it in any consequential way.
In order to strike back, the satrap bade us alchemists create enchanted talismans. Talismans that will allow our soldiers to venture into the tower, even should they lack innate protection.
Could such a thing be possible?
Admittedly, we are still in the midst of testing, but we are quite confident.
Even prior to this, our people have long pursued countermeasures against the aetheric corruption of primals.
Of the methods tested to date, those utilizing dragon scales proved the most promising.
Owing to their aetheric density, the scales are highly resistant to disruptive forces. The mightier the dragon, the greater the resistance.
We seek to amplify this protective property through our alchemy.
Thanks to the scales provided by His Excellency, we have been able to make steady progress with the talisman.
Soon we will be ready to conduct a field test...and here is where you and your blessing of Light come in.
Thank you! Lest you wonder, we ask only that you serve as an escort.
Nothing complicated, I assure you. We ask only that you serve as an escort.
Ahaha, perhaps so! And knowing my colleagues, they won't be satisfied with blood alone...
But as for your task, we ask only that you serve as an escort.
I will explain in greater detail later, but you will be venturing into the tower's field of influence.
And so, for your own safety, I would first test how well your blessing shields you. With your permission, of course.
In that case, Urianger and I will find other ways to make ourselves useful. Seeing as you all work to the point of collapse, I suspect you could do with more hands.
We would be grateful for any assistance you can provide!
If you are ready, then let us put your blessing to the proof.
If you exit the Great Work and turn south, there will be a hill to the right. I will meet you at the top after seeing to some preparations.
Good luck with the test. I shall remain here to assist the other alchemists.
Good luck with the test. I shall remain here to assist the other alchemists.
I hope you didn't have trouble finding this place─or climbing the hill. Not all are accustomed to the physical strain.
I give you the fruit of our sweat, tears, and many a sleepless night: the drunken deepa!
A deepa is a lantern presented to the gods as an offering. Taking inspiration from the tradition, we created this device to test the talisman's efficacy.
Upon activation, it will move a certain distance before emitting a powerful blast of aether.
In lieu of corruption, those lacking sufficient protection will experience severe aether sickness.
For your test, you will be exposed four times. That should be enough to ascertain your blessing's protective capability.
Please begin whenever you're ready. I shall be observing from a safe distance.
To reduce the risk of accidental exposure, the drunken deepa will emit a blast only after it has moved a certain distance. Follow it closely and bathe in the aether four times!
