Admiral. You speak of obstacles we are like to encounter at the meeting, but as things stand, I see no reason why the kobolds would agree to a meeting in the first place.
And so we must provide a reason. I will restore their stolen crystals to them, and personally deliver the cargo along with my apologies.
Bait. They would welcome us into their midst not to speak of peace, but to have you at their mercy.
Aye. And given the wealth of crystals we will bring, I'll wager they will attempt to summon Titan there and then.
Meaning a high priest would need to be present...to whom we could administer the cure!
Precisely. He is the fish I would catch. But he will not be alone. Nay, he will have guards on hand, and they will lay down their lives to protect him.
Yet a single death on the kobolds' side would jeopardize our chance at peace. And there my venture founders...
...Yet it need not. What if we were to employ the Conqueror's Chain? Though we would still have to weaken the kobolds, it would allow us to subdue them without inflicting lasting harm.
The artifact Mistbeard used to take goods and not life? Aye, that would serve. Well done, Marshal.
So, friends, what think you of our strategy?
The effects of tempering are cumulative, and we may safely assume that the high priest's exposure to primal influence is extensive. It will therefore take a great deal of aether to reverse its effects, not to mention time.
Time during which Alisaie would be defenseless. Even should we all look to her protection, I am not convinced we could keep an entire army of kobolds at bay.
Well, I'm happy to take that risk. It's not as if we have any other choice.
Besides, it's what Tesleen would do. And had I not followed her example, we wouldn't even have a cure for tempering, much less a chance to bring peace to Vylbrand.
So I'm going to cure that priest, or die trying.
And I believe in you too. You and everyone. I know you'll keep me safe.
We don't need one. I trust you. All of you. And I know you'll keep me safe.
It is settled, then. See to your preparations, and make for Camp Overlook. We will join you there anon.
Alphinaud wasn't lying when he said I'd be defenseless. So I'm counting on you all to give me the time I need.
Our sole purpose will be to keep you out of harm's way. So leave that to us, and focus on your own task.
Indeed. And should you want for aether, you need only say the word.
Ga Bu! Did you follow us here!?
There's something important that I want to say to the high priest. Express, state, say. Please let me come with you. Please!
I'm sorry, but it's too dangerous. I need you to promise me that you'll stay here where it's safe, all right?
My apologies for the wait. It took time, but we have secured our audience.
All unfolded as expected. At the mention of my returning their crystals in person, the kobolds suddenly remembered how keen they were to be reconciled.
And so, in the glorious spirit of cooperation, we are to be received by Patriarch Za Da of the Second Order, who awaits our pleasure in the Navel. If you are ready, let us proceed to the U'Ghamaro Mines at once.
This aetheryte will bear us to our quarry.
Should he make to summon Titan, as I anticipate, we will halt the ceremony and restrain him.
At this, all hells will break loose, and we will have an army of kobolds to entertain till Alisaie's work is done. Just remember: none must die. We weaken them, and let Eynzahr do the rest.
It is time. Stay the course, my friends. I spy calmer waters beyond this squall.
Greetings, Patriarch. I am Merlwyb Bloefhiswyn, Admiral of Limsa Lominsa.
I come before you to offer my sincerest apologies for the many wrongs committed by my people against you and yours.
Hehehehe... You were foolish to come here. Stupid, unwise, foolish.
The Great Father shall have your souls for your folly!
Aye. Just as we thought.
Now, Alisaie! Quickly!
You don't need to tell me!
Let none pass! We must grant her as much time as we can!
I'm beginning the incantation!
