Admiral, if I may.
Speak freely, Marshal.
By all accounts, Leviathan's most formidable weapon is the very sea itself. Waves and whirlpools, tides and currents─all these things are his to command. The key to victory, I believe, lies in disarming our foe.
This, in effect, is what the Company of Heroes achieved with their ruse. We cannot lure Leviathan from the sea a second time, but what if we could weaken his hold upon the element of water? I have heard of devices capable of such wonders. They draw upon the power of corrupted crystals, I am told.
If mounted upon a ship, such a device might be used to prevent Leviathan from bringing the full force of the sea to bear against us, rendering him no more dangerous than any other sea serpent.
Of course... Cid built a similar device to grant the Enterprise safe passage through Garuda's tempest, did he not?
Begging your pardon, my lady, but to give credit where it's due, this is something I heard from an old arcanist friend of mine.
It makes little difference who thought of it first, so long as it works. Beg the specifications of this device from your friend, and I shall pass them on to our people at Naldiq & Vymelli's.
But before we proceed any further, I would voice one concern: piercing Garuda's defenses is one thing, suppressing Leviathan's attacks quite another.
In matters of science, I am as a babbling babe, but I cannot well imagine that such a feat would be possible without a veritable mountain of corrupted crystals.
The question being: do we have a ship big enough to bear such a burden?
Mayhap not, Admiral. But two might. Recall you the tale of Mistbeard's greatest haul? It is said that he lashed two ships together, side by side, the better to bear his plunder.
By your leave, we might attempt to repeat the trick. The gods know, it would be quicker than building a new vessel.
Mistbeard did this? Truly, Marshal, upon the subject of the pirate king, you are as a scholar.
Now, from what I have gleaned of these matters, the device will need to be in close and constant proximity to the target. To wit, we must lash our twin vessel to Leviathan.
This in itself will be no small feat. Ramming speed will be required, but given the weight of the cargo, that will only be attainable with the aid of a towing vessel...
Suffice it to say, the task of piloting said vessel will entail considerable danger, and I would not ask it of another. I volunteer myself.
'Twill be dangerous for all involved...but we have no better recourse. Very well.
Commodore. Assemble the remnants of the fleet at Moraby Bay.
Give priority to our soundest vessels. The repairs can wait.
Storm Marshal Slafyrsyn, command of the operation is yours. I want that twin vessel ready to sail posthaste.
At once, Admiral!
And then there is the small matter of slaying the beast... The fate of Limsa Lominsa rests upon your shoulders once again. Go well, Warrior of Light.
Beings held as gods also exist in what you call the Far East.
Legends tell us that they walked among us in days of yore, but I confess that I never truly believed them. That I should live to behold one is...humbling and horrifying in equal measure.
Now that I have come face-to-face with a primal, I do begin to understand why the Garleans fear them so.
What is it?
