I am in your debt, stranger. I did not realize my activities had aroused the goobbue's ire until it was too late.
Their oils can be used to make a perfume, you see, and I─
F'lhaminn? I'm... I don't...
Who are you? Whom do you serve?
It appears you've already found our woman. Consider me impressed, my friend.
The Songstress of Ul'dah, I presume? Minfilia─or should I say, Ascilia─is looking for you.
Ascilia!?
You are the very picture of health, milady─yet the world thinks you dead.
I can only conclude that this was by design. The question is: why?
Not everyone who endeavors to find me does so with the best intentions, child.
You will be pleased to know that I fully intend to reveal myself to Minfilia─when the time is right.
Oh! Well...that does please me. More than you know. But tell me: sojourns in the forests of La Noscea aside, when exactly will the time be right?
When I deem it so. Do you imagine I traveled all this way on a whim? As I was telling your associate prior to your intrusion, I came here to harvest these flowers for use in a perfume. Does that satisfy your curiosity, or would you interrogate me further?
M-My apologies for the interruption. Anyway─now that we all have that which we came for, might we continue this conversation in a safer locale? Wineport, say?
This...this is not at all how I had envisioned it.
I can scarce begin to imagine what emotions will go through Minfilia's heart when she reunites with her mother after all these years.
You say my daughter awaits us in Vesper Bay, yes?
I have kept her waiting long enough. Let us be off on the next ferry. I can finish fashioning the perfume along the way.
Understood. Come with me─it would be my pleasure to escort you to the Waking Sands.
Antecedent─you have a guest.
Lhaminn!?
Ascilia...
(I haven't seen her like this in years, Forename!)
I...I never truly believed it when they told me you were dead. But...what kept you away for so long?
The imperials came for me, as I always knew they would. And so I resolved to stay as far away from you as I could, lest their pursuit of me endanger you and our cause. I could think of no better way to grant you the freedom to continue our work.
And continue it you did, achieving things I would not have imagined possible. I followed your every success, and celebrated in secret.
I'm so proud of you, Ascilia.
I learned from the best.
I have a gift for you.
Celsettia perfume! You remembered.
How could I ever forget? You wore it all the time. If ever I lost sight of you, I could find you again, just by following my nose.
I did not think it was made anymore. You must have gone to so much trouble...
It was no trouble to me, my darling. I fear I cannot say the same for Forename, however. I could not have made it without her.
Thank you, Forename. Thank you both.
There's something else.
This...this is the cat's-eye I found! All these years you kept it...
My father was a member of the Ala Mhigan Resistance.
When I was yet a child, he brought me here to Ul'dah. The accident which claimed his life happened shortly after our arrival.
It was Lhaminn who took care of me then. She raised me as her own─taught me everything I needed to know to survive.
Hmm. I am no stranger to the facts of your history, yet I fear I have failed to grasp their implications. It is clear that there is much I do not know─about you and your mother both.
One of her first lessons to me concerned mining─and I was a very dedicated student.
This cat's-eye was the first stone I unearthed. It wasn't much, of course, but I was exceedingly proud to have found it nonetheless.
So I gave it to Lhaminn as a gift. She said it was beautiful...But there I am at a loss. Why are you returning this to me? Is something amiss?
No, Ascilia, nothing is amiss! Quite the opposite! I need you to realize how far you've come, and how much further you may still─must still go.
You and your allies have accomplished more than I could ever have hoped. You have succeeded where I failed, and made me so proud that...that words fail me.
But even as I marvel at the woman you've become, and at all the many things you've done, I cannot help but think of that which you have yet to do, and of what it may entail. Ascilia...Daughter─you cannot stay here anymore. You and the Scions must leave Ul'dah.
Lhaminn...
You built it once, Ascilia. You can build it again. And this time, we'll do it together.
Truly?
Alphinaud. The time has come for the Scions to leave Vesper Bay.
We shall establish a new headquarters in Revenant's Toll, as you proposed.
Much work lies ahead of us. Inform our fellow Scions, and send word to the Students of Baldesion: preparations begin at once!
It is all well and good that we have found ourselves a new home in Revenant's Toll. But there is so much to be done─and in so little time.
Our first step will be to secure the cooperation of the Adventurers' Guild representatives there.
Were it not for the guild's considerable efforts, the original Camp Revenant's Toll would have never been established, much less its more heavily fortified successor.
However, with construction still ongoing, and resources in short supply, it seems certain that the guild will require something in return for their support, sympathetic to our cause though they may be.
Whatever they ask, I shall not begrudge it. To be plain, we need them more than they need us. Without their assistance, such essential tasks as securing new facilities, cultivating relationships with local merchants, and recruiting adventurers would prove difficult, if not impossible.
You need not concern yourself with such matters, Antecedent.
Really, Alphinaud─if I need concern myself with anything, it is surely matters such as these.
Indirectly, perhaps. I submit that you might instead concern yourself with a different matter: namely, to whom the resolution of such matters might best be entrusted. And here I am! Nor do I come alone. May I present the esteemed emissary of the Adventurers' Guild at Revenant's Toll.
