I've been expecting you, Scion of the Seventh Dawn. On behalf of the men and women here, I thank you for your cooperation.
The safety of our citizens is paramount. With your aid, we will prevent Leviathan's return.
As you may already know, Maelstrom scouts have been dispatched to reconnoiter the Sapsa Spawning Grounds.
Though it pains me to admit it, the Maelstrom has never faced a foe the likes of this before. We must proceed with all due caution.
Among other things, they have orders to determine where Leviathan might emerge...assuming it comes to that.
And yet...their return is long overdue. I fear that ill may have befallen them.
For better or worse, we must ascertain their fate. If it is not too much to ask, I would have you aid us in the search.
Five scouts ventured into Sapsa all told. Here, take this flask of restorative to tend those who may have been wounded.
Though it pains me to even consider the notion, if they have perished, circumstances permitting, I ask that you recover their bodies. By no means venture too deep into enemy territory, however─we can ill afford to lose you at this juncture.
Help... Somebody... Of all the times...to forget the restorative... Urgh...
Thank you... I owe you my life...
We were ambushed by the Serpent Reavers. Lightly armed as we are, we didn't stand a chance.
I was able to flee this far, but the others were captured. They were taken to the Serpent's Tongue, I'm certain of it.
I can make my own way back to camp, but I fear the worst for my comrades... Save them, I beg you!
You're returned, thank the Navigator! When I learned that you went to the Serpent's Tongue by yourself, I feared you would meet an untimely demise! But tell me, what became of the others?
Dear gods... <sob> These wounds were not intended to kill, but to torture and maim... Does their savagery know no bounds!? Enemies or no, they go too far!
I dread to think what may have become of the two who remain unaccounted for... I pray that they haven't suffered the same evil fate.
At the very least, one of my men came back alive, and for that I owe you my thanks. The price we paid was dear, but we have the intelligence we need.
Even as we speak, the Admiral finalizes the details of the operation. The warhorns will sound any moment now. Be ready to sally forth when they do.
Thrice-damned fishback bastards... I'll kill them slowly and then chase their rotten souls through all seven hells!
Peace, Commander. We are here for a purpose─and vengeance is not it. I want your mind on the task at hand, savvy?
M-My apologies, Admiral. You may count on me to keep a clear head.
Good. According to our sole surviving scout, the Sahagin and their thralls have already begun to amass at the aetheryte in the depths of Sapsa. If we are to act, it must be now.
The men are ready. We but await your orders, Admiral. As predicted, the Sahagin have tightened security in and around the spawning grounds. A frontal assault is like to be met with fierce resistance.
Ah, but we are not so artless as that, Commander. We shall divide our forces and strike them hard and fast at key locations. Remember: our ultimate objective is to take the Sapsa aetheryte and eliminate the Sahagin priest presiding over the summoning─we are not here to kill them all.
The Maelstrom shall engage and distract the Sahagin's legion of drowned pirates at the Serpent's Tongue. Commander, you have charge over this effort.
Be mindful that the lay of the land there is devilish for attacking forces. Let the Foreign Levy spearhead the assault, and have subsequent units fan out to cover their flanks.
At the selfsame moment, a diversionary squadron formed of galleons from the Crimson Fleet shall harry the enemy from offshore.
In like wise, we Scions shall form smaller units in hopes of confusing the Sahagin defensive effort.
Forename and Y'shtola, the two of you are to make your way to the site of the summoning ritual.
The Admiral's diversions should serve to thin the enemy's defenses, rendering your path less perilous.
A small party, I believe, should be able to win through without drawing unwarranted attention.
Thancred and Yugiri, your mission is to lure as many Sahagin as possible out of the spawning grounds.
Having done so, take to your heels and circle 'round to join the infiltration unit of Y'shtola and Forename.
When all has been set in motion, I myself shall cut a path to the aetheryte, accompanied by Lady Minfilia, as was agreed.
Well, don't let me keep you, friends! ...TO BATTLE!
...When last did we fight side by side, Forename? Too long ago, I warrant. But come, let us away!
Pray do not concern yourself─'twas but a glancing blow. Come, the aetheryte is close at hand─let us press on!
Damn them... They have made thralls of soldiers and civilians both...
Did I miss much?
So that is how you fight in the Far East? Mental note: pick no quarrel with Domans.
But seriously: if I am to keep up, I must needs forsake elegance for efficiency.
Hmmm...
To the aetheryte!
You'll forgive me my lateness.
I've been something of a liability of late, I know. 'Tis high time I set about making amends.
Pshhh! Long have you shriveled shhhorewalkers tormented our kind!
But no more! Your time is at an end!
You shall perish with sssalt in your wounds and sssea in your lungs!
Lord of the Whorl, hearken to our plea!Lord of the Whorl, deliver us from our misery!
Do you feel that!?
I know this sensation... It's the Echo!
What!?
Pshhh! Sssuch power! It is...transcendent!
Seven hells...
Pshhhahahahahaaa! Ssstrike me down if you will! It is futile! I have massstered the gift! I am...eternal!
O mighty Leviathan, ruler of the ssseas, born of waters primordial! I offer unto You this frail fleshhh, that You might grant Your faithful servants deliverance!
I beseech You! Come forth!
Die, damn you!
Foolishhh shorewalker! You cannot kill that which is eternal!
Heavens forfend...
Damn it all!
Pshhh!? My being...ebbs away... B-But it should by rightsss be infinite!
Am I not...immortal? Curse you, Emissary! You promised me...everlasssting... Pshhh...
Wh-Where did he go!?
What say you? Nary a single ship!? Hells take that sea demon!
Gather the survivors and get to shore. Leave the wrecks for the pirates.
Leviathan wastes no time. The diversionary squadron is lost.
For a mercy, 'twould seem the primal now makes for open sea. But why does he not press his advantage? Unless...
Gods save us, he means to unleash a tidal wave!
Understand─I speak of no normal wall of water. That which Leviathan makes ready to conjure carries more destructive power than aught seen in nature.
...Enough to raze entire coastal settlements, if his last attempt is any guide. We cannot suffer history to be repeated...yet how in the seven hells are we to prevent it?
Though our plight cries out for action, we must take thought.
So long as Leviathan remains in the open sea, he is effectively beyond our reach. Our fleet is second to none, of that you may be sure─but Llymlaen Herself would struggle to best the Lord of the Whorl in his element. In a straight fight, he would make meat and matchwood of us.
We need another plan, that much is plain. Let us return to Limsa and see if we cannot think of one. I shall await you in the command room.
You are expected in the command room. Pray do not keep the Admiral waiting.
There used to be a hamlet beyond South Tidegate in western La Noscea. Halfstone, 'twas called.
Some years prior to the Maelstrom's founding, Leviathan rose from the briny depths, and set about unleashing watery hell upon us. On that occasion, the Company of Heroes put him down before he could do too much damage.
But when the bastard came next, this time in the wake of the Calamity, we were not so fortunate. Weary of ravaging our shoreline, he summoned a tidal wave which fair leveled Halfstone, and washed the soil away for good measure.
The area was subsequently occupied by the Sahagin.
Aye, the thrice-damned creatures transformed it into a spawning ground for their brood.
Given the quantity of crystals stolen to feed him and his legion of thralls, we can be fairly sure that Leviathan is stronger now than in his previous incarnations.
If that sea demon is left to wreak havoc, what befell Halfstone may well befall a larger settlement─even Limsa.
That cannot happen. The primal must be stopped.
That was ever our objective, Admiral. But how are we to achieve it?
The sea is Leviathan's uncontested domain. The ships of the Third Squadron could not close to within a hundred yalms of the primal, nor could their cannons pierce his defenses.
I have read the reports, Master Thancred. Our warships may as well have been bloody pleasure barges for all the good they did. Seven hells... Is there no way that we might strike back?
The Company of Heroes defeated Leviathan having first lured him into an inlet, but we must needs contend with him upon the open sea. It will avail us little to consult past experience.
