That was too close... Are you unharmed?
Well now, if it isn't a pair of familiar faces...
Venat! That we should meet you here!
As I mentioned earlier, the better part of the Convocation holds that when we retire is when we return to the star.
Well, she is not among said majority. Even after stepping down, she carries on with her work.
Venat is her name, and she is the previous Azem.
It has been a while, Hythlodaeus. You look well.
Less so, Emet-Selch. I daresay the lines upon your brow have both deepened and doubled in number.
A shame for one so young. You must make an effort to frown less often.
Easier said than done thanks to your unruly successor.
How is she, if I may ask?
Incorrigible as ever. Rushed headlong into a volcano on the brink of eruption just the other day. I should be glad to share the tale in its entirety later, if you are so inclined.
You know I am!
Now then, you are...?
I say...have you perchance come from the future?
I do not believe we have ever met, yet I sense my magick upon you.
Therefore if I wove the enchantment, I could only have done so at a later point in time.
What manner of magick is this, if I may ask?
A traveler's ward, of course. It prevents the corruption of one's aether.
I see you are not ignorant to its presence. And while there are many protective spells, the one you bear is unmistakably mine.
...Primals, you say? I'm not familiar with such beings, but if they “enthrall” by warping the balance of aether, then yes—the magick would afford you a measure of protection.
I gather from your question that you are not ignorant to its presence.
Hold on─from the future? That's absurd.
The reality to which you must return exists as a result of the Final Days.
You cannot reshape the past to undo the tragedies of the present.
What is it? Are you unable to speak of the matter?
So, your actions here will not change your history...but they may yet affect the course of ours...
How very exciting. I'm quite fond of delving into the unknown─and there's naught more unknown than the future.
Until a moment finally arrives, we cannot know for certain what will come to pass─regardless of our supposed foreknowledge. So you needn't worry for us.
More importantly, that you should go to such great lengths as to travel unto the past bespeaks the gravity of your quest.
Will you not reveal it to us? Mayhap we can be of aid to your cause.
If this is true, then you've been keeping quite the secret to yourself.
As a representative of the Convocation, I will hear it all. Your identity, purpose─everything.
Why don't we move to a place more conducive to calm conversation.
I've been working here for some days now at an old friend's behest.
If it is agreeable, we may make use of my accommodation at Poieten Oikos.
We were meant to meet, I am certain of it.
Else I wouldn't have marked you so clearly and sent you unto myself in the past.
It's precisely the sort of mischief I would get up to─and quite inspired, if I do say so myself.
And there I thought you were a harmless stray familiar...
As far as I'm concerned, this nebulous talk of future this and changing history that can wait. First, I mean to find out exactly who you are and what you hope to achieve here.
The future... Our future. I am deathly curious to hear more.
My apologies, but before we move along, a colleague has tasked me with a matter which I'd rather not leave unresolved.
It involves finding a certain concept-engraved crystal...and the quick-fingered oreias which made off with it.
An oreias, you say? I think we might have seen the culprit before being distracted by that business with the shark. Would you like us to follow its aetherial trail?
That would, of course, lead us only to the oreias─there is no guarantee that it hasn't dropped or stashed away the crystal you seek.
Please! Even that much would be enormously helpful. While you are hunting down the thief, I can follow behind and scour the forest floor just in case.
Could I ask you to join the search? I would appreciate another pair of eyes to cover the land to the west of here...
Many thanks! There's a small bridge leading into Poieten Oikos─let us meet up there once we've exhausted our efforts.
The problem you present is vexing enough without adding the old Azem into the equation.
<sigh> And she wonders why these lines upon my brow grow deeper, when she herself wields the hammer and chisel...
The Azems, both mentor and student, are a force to be reckoned with. I find them a delight, personally, but they have a habit of making Emet-Selch look as if he bit down on a sour grape.
Our last searcher returns. I am afraid the oreias no longer had the crystal, nor was I able to find it as I followed in its wake.
I don't suppose you fared any better...?
The crystal! Well done!
Wonderful! Now I can focus on your tale without that missing concept nagging at my mind. Have you always had a knack for finding things?
Oho! You too? Some of us seem destined to always be searching. For ourselves and for others.
You travel often, then? It seems we have something in common.
Long ago, when I held the seat of Azem, I was forever trekking back and forth across the star in search of answers to people's problems.
Naturally, the need for such journeys has lessened considerably since I entrusted the position to my whimsical successor...
Yet I am still eager to come running should an old acquaintance or new interest require my personal attention.
That is what brings me to Elpis, in fact. Many times has my presence been requested; my opinions sought concerning the habitat of this or that creation.
Agreeing to help locate that missing crystal was a minor distraction...which now promises to become a major revelation! How strange and wonderful it is the way one thing leads to another. Wouldn't you agree?
Thank you again for your timely help. Now then, 'tis time I returned this stolen property.
If you would go on ahead to my accommodation, I will join you as soon as I have attended to that task.
Follow the path straight ahead to the building at the top of the slope. I have the entire place to myself, so we can speak without fear of being disturbed or overheard.
Yes, this will be far more comfortable than interrogating you on the side of the road.
You needn't be nervous around Venat─those white robes mark her as one of fair and impartial reasoning.
Aside from the emissary, Elidibus, such garb is worn only by those who have stepped down from public office to serve as advisors. Whatever you have to say, she will listen without judgment.
Welcome to my temporary abode. Please, make yourself at home while I put on some tea.
A wonderful aroma... I feel more relaxed already.
Would that I had sweetmeats to offer, but I travel light out of habit.
There's plenty of hot water, though, so please have as much tea as you like.
Now then...will you tell us your tale?
Why don't you start from the beginning?
Preposterous. Utterly preposterous.
While not the words I would have chosen, I too have my doubts. Much of it borders on the incredulous.
What of you, Venat?
Not knowing the precise details of the first Final Days, 'tis difficult to determine the veracity of the tale.
Supposing it is all true, I must ask myself why I would do what I did.
Why would I feel I had no recourse but to oppose the Fourteen and create this Hydaelyn...
Circumstances change, of course, but it would not have been an easy decision regardless.
No, there must have been a reason. One compelling enough to force me to take such drastic measures.
Then there is the Elpis flower, which I said would serve as a guide.
That it's of import to your mission is plain, but your presence here leads me to believe that this place also holds significance.
But what could it be? What are we meant to accomplish?
Might it not be simply thus?
In the future whence she came, the Final Days could not be averted. Mankind has no choice but to flee the star.
By alerting us to that eventuality, perhaps you wished to pave the way for other futures.
Theoretically speaking, it is a possibility.
Yet if that were my primary objective, I see no reason to guide our friend to Elpis specifically.
The Capitol in Amaurot, or even my own home would be more logical destinations.
True, true... I note also that Hydaelyn did not specify a point in time to which she must return.
By this, it may be inferred that it was not critical that we should meet.
Alternately, She had reason to believe that our paths would converge, coincidental though it may seem.
This is quite a puzzle, and we do not have all the pieces...
Hardly any. But we do have one immutable fact.
If the Final Days are indeed as described, they will bring death to all that I hold dear.
Yet despite being afforded long years of preparation, the only provisions I could make were...for flight?
Nay, my first and foremost endeavor would be to find a way to forestall the coming doom.
Given that even the Fourteen failed, mayhap you deemed it impossible.
Nothing is impossible. This, I have always believed.
And if Hydaelyn is indeed me, She would believe the same.
Listen to yourself. Are you seriously entertaining the notion that you are a messianic figure in some far-fetched tale?
Well, I will not. I refuse to accept that our world could be undone by some unforeseen calamity.
I also take offense to my portrayal as a megalomaniacal madman.
To sacrifice oneself for the star is a noble act, and I would hold those who gave themselves to this Zodiark in the highest esteem.
Yet you claim I recreated Amaurot and populated it with phantoms of our people. A bizarre indulgence that would be insulting to their memory.
Worse still, I even invited you there─literally invited my own downfall. Why would I do something so idiotic and inexplicable?
Now, I will allow that the hypothetical task of restoring our world would be daunting in the extreme. The thought of having to bear such a burden for a thousand thousand lives horrifies me.
But I would never forsake my duty! I would never forsake my brethren!
You do not know me!
I've had my fill of your fiction. I will return to my duty...and you will not bother me again.
Emet-Selch! Wait!
You've seen much of Elpis already. If you have any observations to share, I should like to hear them.
Ah yes, the energy distinct from aether. Though not my field, I have a basic understanding of dynamis.
And you say Hermes researched the phenomenon in the course of creating Meteion... Yes, I believe this warrants further investigation.
Hermes and his creation Meteion, you say?
If dynamis is the selfsame energy as akasa, as it likely seems, then those two may well be at the center of the calamity to come. This warrants further investigation.
I see. Then for now, it might be best that we follow your lead and investigate he who will become Fandaniel.
And if dynamis is the selfsame energy as akasa, as it likely seems, we would do well to learn more about it.
With that settled, 'tis time for action.
The missing pieces of the puzzle are here, I'm certain of it. And when you find them, the picture my future self has painted will be complete, and you will have your answer.
Suffice it to say I will aid you in your quest.
Have faith. If Emet-Selch is the man Azem described to me, we've not seen the last of him.
Shall we begin our investigations, then?
I am acquainted with Hermes, of course, but only as a visitor received by the chief overseer of Elpis. Of the man himself, I know only that which is common knowledge.
Thus I suggest we fall back on the tried-and-true method of conversing with the locals. The observers who live here can surely tell us more of Hermes and Meteion, and I have a good idea of where we might begin...
See you the woman standing in front of yonder building? Her name is Ismene.
She is the one who made arrangements for my stay in Elpis, and from what I recall, she has held her position here for quite some time. Chances are she can provide us with some insights.
Go and ask your questions. I will help with drawing out answers if need be, but I leave the choice of topic up to you.
Let us speak with Ismene. You know more of this coming calamity, so I think it best that you lead the conversation.
