The recipe for xibruq pibil?
I wish I could tell you, friend! A dish so delicious is meant to be shared. Alas, we are forbidden from divulging anything─orders from Hunmu Rruk himself.
But your mentioning it has given me a fierce craving! I only hope there's still ibruq to be had at market...
Hmm? I was simply thinking aloud about my next meal! No harm in that.
Tch. So much for our plan...
We ought to cut our losses and head to Mamook. This feat is nothing but a fool's errand.
You're the fool if you think he won't tan our hides for leather if we dare to return without enough keystones! Besides, we've taken from the house cat before─how difficult could a second time be?
Wh-What are you looking at, salt-licker!? Mind your own business!
Sorry, sorry! I'm back!
What did we discover about xibruq pibil?
True to your prediction, the villagers were forbidden from educating us, er, directly.
However, many were still preparing it as one might a staple dish, and observation of their techniques yielded clues enough.
A lady blending local herbs and spices was only too happy to describe the ones I didn't recognize─while neither confirming nor denying any relation to xibruq pibil.
But one in particular she attributed to all common Xbr'aal dishes. “Achiote,” she called it.
I see. Then if xibruq pibil is indeed a dish as ubiquitous as Alphinaud claims, we have confirmed our first ingredient.
Meanwhile, I did observe a cook burying bundles wrapped in the leaf of najool─or banana, in certain localities. 'Twould seem the use of subterranean ovens is commonplace.
I saw the same! I think we all know what's inside those bundles, then, don't you?
I think you were smelling what you wanted to smell. Cattle is uncommon in Yok Tural and unlikely to be an ingredient used in Xbr'aal traditional cuisine.
What kind of creature is that? There seem to be more hunters than fishers here, so I think we're looking for a different meat─but I'd be keen to give it a try next time!
As would be expected of a dish called “xibruq pibil,” indeed.
So to summarize, this dish is one of ibruq, flavored with a combination of spices that includes achiote, and steamed underground within najool─or banana─leaves.
Given our assumptions are correct, we must now learn where and how to procure our ingredients.
As a staple cuisine, its ingredients would be close at hand─which is why Thancred and I scouted the surrounding forests while you all were exploring the village.
Between the local vegetation and wild ibruq, we should have everything we need in regards to meat and spices.
Heh, leave it to a master gleaner!
With that, we should next divvy up our tasks. While some gather ingredients, others should make ready the kitchen.
I can help prepare the kitchen.
Permit me to assist as well. Our ovens will doubtless require firewood, and I have some experience in its gathering.
I, too, should be glad to volunteer mine aid.
Then the rest of us will gather ingredients. I can make quick work of the spices and herbs myself.
I am happy to lead someone to a suitable ibruq, if they will perform the requisite deed. Alisaie?
As for the najool leaves, I believe I am capable of acquiring that much on my own.
Be warned─you won't find najool in these parts. They only grow in the Ja Tiika Heartland, forests far below these.
Hm. Such an excursion may be time-consuming. Perhaps we ought to try bartering first.
This feat encourages our communication with the locals, after all.
Lamaty'i, Forename. If you would accompany me on my errand?
No better way to whet my appetite!
Good. Let us be about our tasks, then.
...Lamaty'i had no specific task assigned to her, so I had her accompany me. No more, no less.
Come on! Let's go and get those najool leaves.
The sooner we do, the sooner we can eat!
Spiced ibruq wrapped in najool leaves? That sounds like a winning combination to me!
Let us see if there are najool leaves to be had in town.
Perhaps the cook Urianger mentioned might be persuaded to spare us a few.
An underground oven! This must be the cook Urianger was talking about.
Hmm... The earth here is indeed fashioned into an oven of sorts. Fascinating.
Oh, hello again! Did you need something?
Najool leaves! For purposes other than xibruq pibil, naturally...
Unfortunately, I've just used up my last. You'll have to travel to the lower forests for more.
Golmajiik Grove is the source of the finest najool leaves you'll find. Wild variants you sometimes see in city markets can't compare.
I see... I had hoped to avoid such a lengthy venture, but if there's no other way to obtain our ingredient, then to the Ja Tiika Heartland we shall go.
Allow me to save you the trip.
Traveling there requires that you go through the Ty'iinbek Traverse, but it has caved in. Due to the recent storm, I expect.
What? But that means we can't get our najool leaves!
...But we can, can't we? If there were no other way of procuring them, you would have suspended this feat, or else altered its objective.
Perhaps...
Anyway, I apologize for the interruption, but having overheard your conversation, I felt compelled to chime in.
That's very kind of you. Any last-minute advice you'd be willing to share?
Only to undertake the Feat of Repast with an empty stomach. You may find xibruq pibil to be a delicious but daunting dish to finish.
Heh! I can't wait!
Still...if there are no leaves here, and we can't travel for more, how are we supposed to gather all our ingredients?
These feats are meant to deepen our understanding of the peoples and cultures of Tuliyollal.
So perhaps there is something about xibruq pibil that we have yet to learn. Something of significance other than its recipe or ingredients.
Oh, I see... Like who was the first to make it─its history, that sort of thing!
Ahem! If it's Yak T'el's history you're interested in, you should start with the old war.
Between the Xbr'aal and the Mamool Ja, right?
These forests have borne witness to centuries of warfare, the evidence of which remains a scar upon the earth.
To know the end of that bloodshed is to know xibruq pibil.
Huh? What does steamed ibruq have to do with bloodshed?
Precisely the question we must answer. Vexing though such a detour may seem, I can think of no other way to approach this feat.
In that case, you may wish to visit the site of a settlement ruined by the war. The village of Ilyon Asoh─it lies a short distance to the east.
The village of Ilyon Asoh? Understood! Thank you for your help.
Come, let's go and see this place!
I was told not to talk about xibruq pibil. The history of our people and the─<cough>─important developments therein are another matter.
Everyone knows there was a war between the Mamool Ja and Xbr'aal. But I, uh...may have forgotten some of the details.
The village of Ilyon Asoh must be further east.
Let us continue with haste. For all we know, our competitors may be on our heels.
This place feels forgotten by time...
So this is the village of Ilyon Asoh...or what's left of it.
It was a place of light and life. My great-grandfather called it home, in fact.
Wuk Evu! I didn't know you were in Yak T'el!
I was picking up lumber from Iq Br'aax when I heard the Third Promise was on her way to this site of deep historical significance.
I immediately saw another opportunity to be of service, and so followed you here.
Wuk Evu is a shipwright who came to our aid during the Feat of Reeds.
A pleasure. You are a member of the Third Promise's retinue, I presume?
For the moment, I suppose I am. My name is Koana. Pleased to make your acquaintance.
Koana! Now that's a good name. A familiar name! Where have I heard...
Koana!? As in the Second Promise of Tuliyollal!?
To think that I addressed the Dawnservant's own son as some common retainer! Such disrespect cannot be excused. Please, take up your gun and─
Oh, come on, not this again!
I take no offense, so please do not dwell on it.
All right, then. I shan't dwell on it.
A-And right on cue... At least he's consistent?
I understand you wish to learn about xibruq pibil. While I am forbidden by the Xbr'aax Rax to divulge any information regarding its preparation, I would be happy to share what I know of Yak T'el's history.
We'd appreciate that!
In its most basic sense, the conflict between the Xbr'aal and Mamool Ja was one of land.
The Mamool Ja live in the lower forest, where the thick canopy obscures the sun and the soil is unforgiving to crops. This drove them to covet the upper forest─the home of the Xbr'aal─and they launched a determined campaign to seize it for themselves.
Yet advantage ever favors higher ground, and the Xbr'aal forces held the upper hand against the invaders, rebuffing them time and again.
But as the state of this village would attest, the tide eventually turned. What brought it about?
Something you know all too well: blessed siblings.
You must understand. The Mamool Ja were once a people as much at war with themselves as they were with others.
The Hoobigo, Boonewa, and Doppro each sought to assert dominance over the others, even as they engaged the Xbr'aal in battle.
In an effort to strengthen bonds and discourage infighting, Hoobigo and Boonewa leaders arranged a marriage between their children. However, this political measure altered the course of history in ways no one could have ever imagined.
It was long believed that partners of differing clans could not have children together.
But then it happened. A child arrived who shared the blood of Hoobigo and Boonewa both─a two-headed Mamool Ja.
Blessed with tremendous physical strength and magical prowess, he grew into a mighty warrior before eventually arising as the first Autarch─ruler of all three clans.
Such qualities would dispose anyone to leadership. Character notwithstanding.
Under the Autarch's rule, the newly united Mamool Ja became a force to be feared, and the war soon came to a head.
I think it best you see the results firsthand. Let us visit another battlefield from that time, and there I shall continue the tale.
By the Twelve...
What happened here...?
This is where most battles were fought between the Xbr'aal and Mamool Ja─the Xobr'it Cinderfield.
A field of cinders, indeed... How fierce their clashes must have been.
The war over these lands began after the Yok Huy's departure some five hundred years ago.
And for four centuries thereafter, the two enemies repaid violence with violence. A constant stream of minor skirmishes punctuated by massive slaughter.
Until Father ended their endless conflict eighty years ago.
Accompanied by a retinue of only six, the Dawnservant opposed both armies and brought the fighting to a standstill.
First they seal Valigarmanda at full strength, and now this...
It was during this armistice that both sides gathered for negotiations at the Dawnservant's behest.
For too long you have been bound by your ancestors' violent legacy. It is past time you broke free of it!
