Yes, I'm here, of course I'm here! What amusements do you have for me today?
My dear Feo Ul, paragon of pixie-kind. For you, I have the most vital task.
This fine lady is a friend from a distant realm.
And we have need of a means to ferry things back and forth from her home. Might you be able to...assist us in this matter?
You came from beyond, didn't you!? From beyond the rift!
How wonderfully exciting! What a brave and reckless and marvelous thing you did! You've the heart of a pixie, you do!
After careful consideration, I have decided to grant you my assistance. Make a pact with me, and the fun can begin!
But answer me this, traveler: did your garments come with you when you crossed over? Your teeth? Your nails?
Just as I thought! Then you've a good, stout connection with your home, through which all your belongings great and small may easily pass.
From this moment forth, I will be your [beautiful branch], and you my [adorable sapling]. Like the branch which sprouts from the sapling, our bond will flow unbroken from one to the other!
Raise your hand.
'Tis done! We are bound now, dearest sapling.
Come, come, then! Make your request! Tell me your desire! I wish to visit this world of yours!
Mayhap a message to your friends in the Source to inform them of your safe arrival?
Consider it done!
As you heard, that was Feo Ul of the pixies. Their kind possess an affinity for magic akin to that of arcane beings.
They rarely show themselves in populated areas, but Feo is insatiably curious even by pixie standards, and seems to have taken a liking to the Crystarium.
Right, we were going to organize a room for you, weren't we? Come along.
Ah, there you are─I was just finalizing the matter of your accommodation. You'll have a private room here at the Pendants for the duration of your stay, to make use of as you see fit.
When you are ready to retire, the manager will show you to your lodgings. Pray rest and recuperate, and we shall reconvene in the Ocular anon.
I believe that covers all of the practical concerns...
...Thank you for answering my call, Forename. We are denied the comforting blanket of night, but may peaceful dreams attend you nonetheless.
