It needn't be like this. No, there must be a way to restore things to the way they were. To reclaim the perfect paradise we once had.
No, my friends. Suffering exists, and we cannot pretend otherwise.
No civilization, however great, could eliminate it. If we would live, we must accept it as our constant companion.
Let us not seek to forget this tragedy. Let us carry it in our hearts, that we may grow stronger and know true happiness.
We can't accept it! We won't accept it! It will be ours again─a world free of sorrow!
No, it will not, for there has ever been sorrow. Mankind was but spared its biting sting for a time.
So please, open your eyes. To try and reclaim those lives we lost by sacrificing yet more isn't wisdom. It is weakness.
No paradise is without its shadows. If we cannot accept this truth and learn from our pain, then our plight shall be repeated.
O mighty Zodiark, god born of our boundless faith! We bid you hear our prayer!
Accept this offering of lives, and deliver unto us the lives we once had. Deliver unto us the days of old...
The days when the star was a font of love, and we knew naught but bliss!
You would destroy it? Our beautiful world?
Lands that stretched on forever. Skies one could drown in. The heartbeat of nature, silent yet strong.
And amidst it all a people. Beacons of light and life. Laughter that warmed my heart like naught else before.
They are my meaning and my purpose. My love.
In spite of...or perhaps because of this, I choose to believe.
In mankind's potential. In his ability to find a way forward.
So let there be no way back. From that temptation I sunder us.
No more shall man have wings to bear him to paradise.
Henceforth, he shall walk.
All is excruciating pain. I breathe fire and torment.
I birth a world of suffering to mire and plague.
In one fleeting moment, lives come and go. Ever moving towards the unknown.
And in that fleeting moment, they cry for the answer to the question:
Why, given life, are they meant to suffer. To die...
As fragmented, imperfect beings, yours is a never-ending quest.
A quest to find your purpose, knowing your end is assured.
To find the strength to continue, when all strength has left you.
To find joy, even as darkness descends...
...And amidst deepest despair, light everlasting.
A conjunction has begun to form; an intertwining of your time and mine.
When you truly understand what is at stake, and your journey has prepared you to surmount the insurmountable...
Then shall I honor the promise made in another time. Another age.
You've a knack for turning up exactly when needed, and this is no exception!
Forename!? Impeccable timing, as always!
I'd heard you were off in the First as part of our efforts to investigate the Final Days.
Well, as so often seems to be the case, while you were away, we've had some few developments...
...Which we can discuss in just a moment. For now, however, I cannot tell you how wonderful it is to have you back!
So, have you learned aught more of the Final Days?
Then the journey was well worth the risk. No doubt your newfound knowledge will be a great boon to us all.
Unfortunately, during your time on the First, events here have taken a turn for the worse.
The Scions are running themselves ragged trying to contain the spread of blasphemies, but it's a losing battle.
To try and ascertain the where and why of it, Alisaie and Alphinaud have been traveling all over...
Of all the regions they've visited, Locus Amoenus is one of the worst affected.
Thancred, Estinien, and G'raha took a detachment of allied soldiers there to offer aid and succor to those in need.
But the province is vast. They only managed to visit a handful of coastal villages! It was an accomplishment worth celebrating, still, but a drop in the bucket at best...
In the meantime, Y'shtola and Master Matoya have been making a concerted effort to establish contact with Hydaelyn in the aetherial sea, but to no avail.
As for Tataru and I, we've been keeping a close eye on the Forum.
From what we gather, they've been constructing a vessel to ferry people to the moon. An ambitious project that has likely been years, if not decades in the making. However, since we've seen no sign of it thus far, I suspect it's still incomplete.
You will also recall the proposal issued by Master Fourchenault to the people of Radz-at-Han.
Following their discussion, Vrtra declared his support for the plan and urged those who wished to evacuate to accept the Forum's invitation.
So far, so good. But that's where things get a little strange...
Apparently, the Forum caught wind of the lunar teleporter in the Tower of Babil, and decided to use it to deliver people to the moon instead of their mysterious ship.
Therefore, to secure safe passage for the Hannish refugees to the tower, Alphinaud, Alisaie, Estinien, and G'raha traveled to Garlemald not long ago.
Trouble is, the capital was hardly the safest place to begin with, and now...
...The Final Days have come to Garlemald.
Shortly after our friends arrived, they were sent to rendezvous with Master Fourchenault. Then, panic broke out, and our communications were severed.
From what fragments we were able to make out before the linkshell went completely silent, we can only assume the phenomenon has spread to the capital.
The others need you, Forename. Please, you must help them!
Having you there will make all the difference. I'm sure of it.
Camp Broken Glass was their first port of call, so you'd best start there.
Hopefully, Lucia will know where they are!
There's no telling what you'll be walking into, so you had best take every possible precaution.
I'll be sure to let Thancred and Y'shtola know you're back. At least they're still responding to their linkpearls.
It pains me to send you off alone into unknown peril after you've only just returned, but Twelve willing, you won't be alone for long.
Forename... And not a moment too soon.
The skies over Garlemald are ablaze, but it's events on the ground that concern me.
As you will have heard, your fellow Scions arrived ahead of you.
We cut the customary greetings short after we received word from our troops on the Magna Glacies that the Forum's airship had landed.
It was then that the heavens began to burn...
I dispatched your friends at once to ensure the refugees come to no harm.
I would have you join them immediately. Additional support is en route, but we will discuss them later. I trust you are ready to depart?
I would have you join them immediately. Additional support is en route, but we will discuss them later. I trust you are ready to depart?
