Hahaha, such power! Destroy, destroy, destroy!
By enchanted sledge, intruders begone! Begone, begone, begone!
Whoops!
Burn upon the mettlegrounds! Burn, burn, burn!
I see─the attacks reflect!
Peculiar technology, to be sure...
Crumble beneath my full might! Die, die, die!
Pardon me!
We have more to be wary of now...
Once we determine a pattern, we can avoid its attacks.
All right! We did it!
Now this is peculiar...
That glowing stone...is it infused with aether?
What is that?
I-It's huge!
Time to test our mettle, then.
Time to test our mettle, then.
Th-The sheer force it's mustering!
Watch out, everyone!
That was a close one!
Is everyone all right!?
What immeasurable strength!
Dodge its attacks, then resume the offensive!
I've never seen a place like this before.
Strikingly different from the rest of the cenote...
We must be very deep underground by now.
That light...
Then that must be...
I thought this place was of Yok Huy origin...but is this glowing stone their creation as well?
I don't believe so. I've never seen anything like it.
Then it's from an even older time?
Don't tell me it's the Allagans again...
While careful study would be required to confirm, it does not appear to be reminiscent of their designs.
A golden light... Could it be...?
There's something on the other side. But how do we get over there...?
That's how, apparently.
Right then. Let's go and take a look.
That seal... That's Sharlayan and no mistake!
How do we open it?
Come and look at this.
Your tablets might be a good fit, wouldn't you say?
Leave it to Alphinaud!
Is this it? The golden city?
Though there is some resemblance, it doesn't quite live up to what the Yok Huy described from their dreams...
Aaahahaha! Well done. Well done, indeed!
You, my dear daughter, have found the entrance to the city of gold and triumphed in the rite of succession.
So we did it...
We made it to the end!
You seem more perplexed than joyous.
It's just...this place is unlike anything we've seen in Tural, never mind the peculiar stone.
So I am given to wonder...what exactly lies beyond that gate?
Nothing less than the golden city of legend, I assure you─though circumstance prevents us from opening the gate.
As to what the city is and what Galuf Baldesion discovered all those years ago...
This knowledge and more I will share with you after your ascension. What you choose to do with it will be up to you.
The golden city is real...
It took a while, but I finally found it...
Come, let us return to Tuliyollal!
Home at last!
I understand now why the Students of Baldesion were petitioned...
But what were my grandfather's findings? Not only regarding that stone, but that gate...
That was wholly unlike what I imagined in my youth... Since when did a place like that exist in Yok Tural?
It feels as though we have more questions than we set out with. But for now, returning in one piece is cause enough for celebration.
We have been eagerly awaiting your safe return.
Well, we've done it. We've seen Wuk Lamat to victory in the rite of succession.
Like me, I expect you have no few questions about the golden city, but they must wait until our claimant has settled into her new role.
Even as we speak, she prepares for the ascension ceremony back at the palace. I'm given to understand it will be held in a few days time.
In the meantime, let us all enjoy some well-deserved rest.
Welcome back. And may I congratulate you on Wuk Lamat's victory in the rite of succession.
It is our great honor to host the comrades of our future Dawnservant.
Such a grand journey has doubtless left you fatigued. Please relax and enjoy your stay.
Such a grand journey has doubtless left you fatigued. Please relax and enjoy your stay.
Surprised to see me? I suppose it's only natural...
May I come in?
I haven't properly thanked you.
That my sister was able to realize her potential is testament to the quality of her traveling companions. Particularly you.
For that, you have my heartfelt gratitude.
My primary business in calling is to deliver a message from Lamaty'i. As you well know, after the ascension ceremony she will officially take up the mantle of Dawnservant.
She has expressed a desire for you to accept a post within her administration...
...while making no mention of me.
You needn't decide immediately. My sister will broach the matter with you again after the ceremony.
Whether you continue to assist Lamaty'i or not is up to you.
That is all. If you'll excuse me.
...You have become someone irreplaceable to her. As her brother, I acknowledge that with no little jealousy.
But believe me when I say that I hope you will stay by her side.
But believe me when I say that I hope you will stay by her side.
But believe me when I say that I hope you will stay by her side.
What a crowd! As befits the changing of Dawnservants.
It's starting.
The Dawnservant!
Look! He's here!
The Head of Reason is resting again... Thought he'd grace us for this occasion at least.
People of Tuliyollal! You honor us with your presence.
For on this auspicious day, we witness the dusking of one era and the dawning of the next. The succession of Dawnservants!
Heh! But I've talked for long enough. Allow me to present the claimant whose determination, wisdom, and compassion guided them to triumph and the city of gold!
My daughter─Wuk Lamat!
Huzzah! Huzzah!
Long live the Dawnservant! Long live Tuliyollal!
Growing up in this city, I used to think I knew all there was to know about Tuliyollal.
But my journey showed me how much I had yet to learn about the cultures, histories, and aspirations of this nation.
Through the time-honored Ihih'hana, the Hanuhanu taught me how they nourish and cultivate both the land and their bonds with visitors.
And with their alpacas and tradecraft, the Pelupelu showed me the depths of their patience and fortitude. To know when to push through...and when not to push your luck.
From the Moblins and their artisans, I gained insight into the power of creativity. That it is when we are filled with passion and bolstered by the support of others that we produce our best works.
And in Kozama'uka, I was moved by the history and hopes of the Yok Huy, who believe that death isn't the end. That we live on so long as we're remembered.
I felt joy and harmony in Yak T'el when I tasted xibruq pibil. The dish that marked the beginning of peace between the Xbr'aal and Mamool Ja after centuries of warfare.
And...I felt sorrow in Mamook when I met with those who placed their faith in the promise of blessed siblings, and for this were burdened with great suffering.
Through the understanding we forged, I'm hopeful that they will find what they seek through friendship and community. For we are all Turali.
Understanding with Mamook? What sorcery did she use on them...?
All of which is to say that, as I've come to know our nation, I've seen the ways in which we thrive, and the ways in which we still struggle.
Some in Kozama'uka must resort to banditry to survive. A faction of Yok Huy still cling to dreams of conquest. Not everyone lives in peace and plenty.
And there's still so much of Tuliyollal I don't know. Places I haven't seen and people I haven't met.
That's why I hope to keep learning about and from you, that we might build a nation where everyone knows happiness.
Because if there's one thing my journey has taught me, it's that your happiness is my happiness!
I say mine, but the Dawnservant doesn't need to be a single person, does it?
Oh dear... What is she doing?
My father led Tuliyollal to prosperity by the resolve and reason of his two heads.
But my one head can only get us so far. To further change our nation for the better, I'll need someone else.
Someone with the knowledge and insight that I lack.
So what do you say? Be Dawnservant with me, Koana!
Lamaty'i... Are you certain?
Absolutely. You take Reason and I take Resolve. Together, we make a full Dawnservant.
Haaahahahahaha!
You'll have no objections from me, of course!
But mine is not the approval you need.
During my time abroad, I experienced the benefits of foreign technologies, some of which I introduced to our nation.
Dirigibles now soar the sky in the south, while locomotives traverse the land in the north.
I was convinced that by imitating foreign powers, we could assert our strength and thereby deter invasion.
Yet despite my intentions, I failed to understand what I was too eager to cast aside, and the very people I wished to protect.
My own journey has taught me that culture isn't a hindrance to progress, but a shared value that binds us, connecting lives and generations.
With your blessing, I vow to help Tuliyollal prosper in a way that honors the hopes and heritage of all her peoples. My esteemed predecessor would accept nothing less.
For ultimately, I harbor the same wish as my sister: to give you cause to smile. That is my heartfelt desire.
Hehe! Glad this didn't go to waste.
This is the Lay of Legacy! The part of the Tuliyollal Saga where you and I become the next Dawnservant.
Good heavens... Don't tell me this is what kept you so busy ahead of the ceremony.
Just so you know, I didn't decide this on a whim. After reflecting on all we've been through, I realized it was the only answer.
With this, both my brother and I have worthy successors. ...He would have been proud.
Hm. Of course you knew.
It's been three years since my brother left us...
It cannot be... The Head of Reason is no longer with us?
O tragic tidings...
I didn't want to believe it...
I'm sorry I never told you. We wanted the people to rest easy until our successor could be chosen.
Planning the rite was my brother's final duty. He was determined for it to serve the nation's best interests, and labored nigh without cease.
And then he died, forcing me to do the actual work. Sneaky bastard.
But he did well, I have to give him that. The outcome speaks for itself.
Though not quite to the original script, your new Dawnservant rises!
May they shine resplendent, and their rule bring light ever greater to Tuliyollal!
The Head of Reason was very wise indeed to devise something so elaborate and meaningful as the rite of succession. 'Tis a shame he could not be here to bear witness to the end.
A bittersweet celebration to be sure, but I'm glad Wuk Lamat finally got the recognition she deserves.
She might have told someone what she was planning...
But Wuk Lamat does not act without the best interests of her people in mind.
Wuk Lamat was brilliant up there, wasn't she?
The part with the Second Promise was surprising, but between the two of them, I daresay our new Dawnservants will be capable of anything.
The future of Tuliyollal is bright indeed.
The future of Tuliyollal is bright indeed.
Change is in the air, and it's all because of our little firebrand.
Every ilm her father's daughter, that one.
I'll be watchin' where you steer this nation, lass. With what time I've got left.
Wuk Lamat has truly come into her own, has she not?
Indeed. Even as she moved the people with her heartfelt words, she retained her characteristic spontaneity─as evidenced by her nomination of Koana as fellow Dawnservant.
As sudden as it was, I would like to believe she gave it all due consideration.
She could do far worse. Koana completed every feat except the last, and that he only forfeited to help Wuk Lamat secure victory.
I look forward to seeing how Tuliyollal will prosper under their care.
Everyone, thank you for coming!
I could see you all perfectly from up there.
That was an impressive speech, Dawnservant.
I told you─no titles!
Besides, after everything we've been through together, you're nothing less than family.
So...like my family does, I'd like you to call me Lamaty'i.
Thank you. It means a lot to me.
It would also be my honor to call you Lamaty'i.
Oh, don't worry about that. However you say it, I know it'll be with love.
If we do mispronounce it, please correct us, but...
It would be my honor to call you Lamaty'i.
Come on, say something would you? We already have Erenville for the mocking silences!
I think you've simply caught our friend off guard.
Personally, it would be my honor to call you Lamaty'i.
Mine as well.
Indeed. Consider us your Eorzean cousins, if such a notion appeals to you.
Eorzean cousins...
It's a little embarrassing...but not in a bad way!
There's still lots I'd like to say, but I need to make my rounds first.
I want to thank my supporters who're visiting for the occasion. Could you wait for me here?
Of course. We'll keep ourselves entertained.
That said, would you join me, Forename?
Wonderful! Come and meet me outside the Winged Walk, then.
I don't believe I saw Ketenramm in attendance. Did you?
Lamaty'i... Lamaty'i? Hmm...
Don't worry about us! Go on and have fun with Wuk La─er, Lamaty'i!
She'll always be “Wuk Lamat” to me. No matter how important she gets.
Ready? Let's go.
Our first stop is Aunt Tii's Tacos─and not just for a snack, I promise. Wuk Evu and Mablu should be there.
Of course, since we'll be at Aunt Tii's Tacos anyway, we might as well pick up some snacks as well, right?
Did something come up? That's fine─meet me by the Winged Walk once you're finished!
Let's get going!
Ohokaliy!
These tacos are delicious! Though no doubt even tastier if topped with reeds...
Dawnservant Wuk Lamat! Oh, she was marvelous up there, wasn't she? I simply wept with joy!
It's been a while since I've made it to the capital. I'm glad to find it so lively.
Why if it isn't Forename! Marvelous ceremony, wasn't it?
Dawnservant Wuk Lamat. Words cannot well express the profound joy your ascension has brought me.
No need for formalities. I'm still the same old me.
All right, then. I shall forgo formalities.
Argh, but I cannot! You are Dawnservant! Too disrespectful it is to address you without your due title!
As Dawnservant, I'm ordering you not to bother with formalities!
All right, then. I won't bother anymore.
I could more easily converse with a drunken alpaca.
Thank you for helping Wuk Lamat become Dawnservant, Forename!
Political opinions in our community may have been divided, but a Dawnservant's ascension presents us all with a prime opportunity. Which is why I convinced everyone to participate in a commemorative sales campaign!
A wonderful plan, no? My first big undertaking as a merchant!
I do like the sound of a sale! ...So long as I'm not persuaded to buy too much.
It's so good to see all of you again. I wanted to personally thank each of you for your help.
The Feat of Reeds and the Feat of Gold were my first true tests as a claimant. If not for your guidance, I would have failed the rite of succession before I fully understood its importance.
Now that you've given me a taste for celebrating culture, I can't wait to see what else Tuliyollal has to offer. In Xak Tural, for instance!
As always, you must observe proper etiquette. I would be happy to offer my services as a tutor, should you desire them.
I can think of no better instructor! I'll be sure to bring Koana as well.
Your duties as Dawnservant will be plentiful─but don't forget your promise to attend Ihih'hana next season.
Of course! I wouldn't miss it.
When I've made a name for myself as a merchant, I'll come by the palace and tell you all about my biggest sales!
Hehe, I look forward to it!
I have been personally attending to your alpaca's care. Dare we hope to see you at the ranch again?
Hehe, tell my fluffy, spit-filled friend that Wuk Lamat will visit soon.
Anyway, you'll have to excuse us. Oh─you haven't seen Fonjeantaine around here, have you? A tall, slim fellow with long pointy ears.
I saw a man matching that description by the weapons dealer in Bayside Bevy. In the company of a Moblin and a pair of Yok Huy, if I remember correctly.
Bayside Bevy─got it!
Enjoy the festivities, everyone. And the tacos!
Sounds like Fonjeantaine has made new friends. Which should make him easy to find!
Then it's settled─the Dawnservant Dedication Day Discount is hereby in effect!
The First Promise's golden alpaca is as spirited as ever. Too spirited, if you ask me.
I hope Dawnservant Koana will join us for Ihih'hana as well.
We could not have asked for a finer Dawnservant.
Pfff... Kohhh... Potfriend! Rakorok is grateful for this meetagain!
I have not come to Tuliyollal in quite some time...
The citizens behold the High Luminary with awe. No doubt few have seen one of his station...or his stature.
Ah, Forename! A pleasure to see you again.
Wuk La─er, Dawnservant! Forename! You honor us with your presence!
Thank you for coming, everyone! I know the journey to Tuliyollal isn't a short one.
Pfff... Pfffkohhh... Longroad worth the travel to congratulate new Dawnservants!
To hear the Head of Reason has passed brings me sorrow, but we who remember him will ensure he lives on. May the accolades of this day be as offerings to the future he envisioned.
The High Luminary and I attend on behalf of Worlar's Echo. Had our people come en masse, we would have been an obstruction.
Nonsense! You're always welcome─all of you! This is your city as much as anyone's!
I'm glad to see you hale and whole, Forename. Though I know little of the particulars, I can only imagine your latest adventure has been both long and...colorful.
Beginning with near shipwreck, if you'll remember! Yet here we stand, celebrating the ascension of your claimant.
When my journey began, I thought only of preserving the peace that my father worked so hard to create.
But the Feat of Pots, the Feat of Proof, and the Feat of Ice showed me that peace is not simply the absence of war.
Being able to live together in safety and happiness─that was what my father envisioned for this nation. That's the Tuliyollal I want for you all.
So I promise you this─as Dawnservant, I will do everything I can to bring that same happiness to the bandits in Kozama'uka and the Yok Huy of Chirwagur Saltern. I won't forsake them.
As I was moved by your father's influence, so too may the Chirwagur come to accept your peace.
Their beliefs have stood for a millennium. While not easily shifted, neither are they immutable.
Heh! Well, I can be pretty determined. They'll come around eventually, mark my words!
I can vouch for the efficacy of such determination. Thanks to the Moblins' hospitality, I have been able to rediscover the joy of my craft and honor my father's legacy.
Pfff... Kohhh... Now that goodliving is secure, the village overflows with feelsmiles! Such cooperation between helphands and potsworn is the very spirit of a healthy potpact.
A partnership like yours is bound to be fruitful. I look forward to seeing the fantastic pieces you produce!
There are some other people I'd like to see, so we should take our leave. Let's try and find Hunmu Rruk.
The Xbr'aax Rax? I believe I saw him on the sands below.
The Gleamsands! Thank you.
Enjoy your time in the city! And remember─this will always be your home too.
Let's make for the Gleamsands. Hunmu Rruk should be there!
Pfffkohhh... Rakorok is excited to see how the new Dawnservants will handhelp Tuliyollal. This city will be as one big happypot!
Come and visit us in Earthenshire! Rakorok and I should be glad to welcome you.
I must pay my respects to Gulool Ja Ja, though he will doubtless insist upon a bout...
Before the ceremony, we perused the Tuliyollal saga on Morrow's Measure. I am proud to see Yok Huy glyphic traditions so prominently displayed in the city.
What a wonderful variety of foods and flavors they have here... I must be sure to bring some home for the others.
You must think my attendance incongruous to such an auspicious occasion. Yet as Autarch of Mamook, I have a duty to represent the goodwill of my people.
Glad am I to see you, Forename. I had hoped I might extend congratulations to the Dawnservant, but she no doubt has other duties to attend to...
My, my. You honor us with a personal visit, Dawnservant. Congratulations upon your ascension.
No, no, none of that. My title may have changed, but I'm still just Wuk Lamat.
More than “just,” I'd say. You have grown into a leader fit for this nation. Your father must be proud.
I hope so. But...big events like this make me wonder, you know? What my birth parents might say if they knew.
...I imagine they would say that it fills their hearts with joy to see the strong, compassionate woman you have become.
I owe you my thanks as well. For fulfilling your promise to me.
I told Bakool Ja Ja to stay with us so we could all congratulate you in person.
But he marched off, muttering something about not being able to face you just yet.
The boy needs purpose. Purpose beyond catering to the demands of others. He was always too obliging for his own good...
I'm sure he'll find it in his own time. Especially if he knows his family is there for him.
...That we are.
By the by, have you seen Ketenramm anywhere? Er, Tankwa, that is!
Ketenramm, was it? A strong name...if a bit exotic.
We called upon him before leaving Mamook, but he wasn't at home. I don't recall seeing him at the ceremony either.
The First Promise was notably absent as well. Though I assumed he required time to salve his injured pride.
Everyone thought he'd be the one to succeed Papa. My victory must have come as quite a shock to him.
As for Tankwa, I'm sure he's around here somewhere. Or ready to appear when we least expect him.
We'd best be going, but relax, enjoy, and make yourselves at home! And come and visit us any time!
All right, I think I found everyone I could find. Let's return to the others in the Winged Walk!
Let's head back to the Winged Walk. Everyone's waiting!
Wuk Lamat may have realized her goal, but I hope you will continue to be a friend to her.
More than a few of Mamook's citizens have expressed new interest in moving to Tuliyollal. I will confer with Dawnservant Koana to ensure their transition is a smooth one.
I've heard there's another shop that serves delicious tacos. I'd love to try them...
Oh, you're back! Erenville was just regaling us with stories of Lamaty'i from when they were little.
What, the one about the taco? It was basically clean when I found it─or no, the one about Papa's feathers!? Look, I didn't know where else to wipe my nose, and I was too little to know better!
Gulool Ja Ja stopped by to offer his thanks for our support.
He also bade me extend his gratitude to you for assisting a concerned father? I'm not sure what he meant by it, but I assume you do.
There are rumors that Gulool Ja Ja may go on pilgrimage now that he's no longer Dawnservant. Though I'm sure the transition process will keep him in the capital for some time yet.
Is Wuk Lamat still making her rounds?
Welcome back. I hope you didn't rush on our account.
Seen everyone you wanted to see?
I have. Sorry for keeping you all.
Now, there's just one last matter. What Koana spoke to you about.
I'm sure he made it abundantly clear, but I'm completely serious.
I want you to stay in Tuliyollal with me.
...I'm not forcing you, of course. But should you wish it, you'll always have a place here.
Ah, that's right. This is for you.
A permit granting passage to Xak Tural, which as I recall, you've yet to see.
An adventurer like you could hardly resist, no?
I can't believe our journey is over already!
You accepted me as a comrade and stood with me to the end.
You have my eternal gratitude. Thank you.
Well, I had better get going. I need to start learning all my official Dawnservant duties.
I'll be sure to share what my old man says about the golden city too, once he tells me.
Till then, feel free to pass the time as you like.
For now, I will remain in Tural. There's someone I'd like to see before returning to Sharlayan.
What about the rest of you?
Alisaie and I also intend to remain a while longer. As educational as this experience has been thus far, we feel there are even more lessons to be had for Garlemald.
By hearing about the peace your father facilitated, and then seeing you reforge relations with Mamook, we were reminded of a profound truth.
That is, acceptance begins with understanding.
And like you demonstrated throughout the rite, there are unexpected-yet-effective ways for two sides to understand each other.
The question is how to encourage it, and by seeing more of this nation born of unity, we hope to find some hints.
Personally, I can hardly wait to learn more about the city of gold. So if I may, I'd like to stay in Tuliyollal as well.
By all means! Your rooms are at your disposal for as long as you need them.
And what of you? Thinking of touring Xak Tural, perhaps?
Of course. You're hardly the type to leave half a continent unexplored.
Then perhaps we could travel together?
The person I intend to meet is my mentor, so I'll be visiting my hometown in Xak Tural.
If you have no particular destination in mind, I'd be happy to guide you en route.
Then it's farewell for now.
Take care, all of you!
When you're ready, come and meet me at the Xak Tural skygate.
We're friends to the end, you hear me! Friends to the end!
