Miss. Marshal Tarupin said you might have something for me?
Twelve be praised. This should put the drivers' hearts at ease. Tell the vice marshal we await his orders.
Y'shtola and the others are safely strapped in. Don't worry─I'll be by her side the entire time.
Thank you, Krile.
I'll walk alongside. They'll need protection in case the Garleans try anything.
Hang on. You're injured too, aren't you? Shouldn't you be in one of the carriages?
I'm not so frail that I can't make the trip on my own. Besides, there's still work to be done here. I'll see you at the Wall when it's finished.
As you wish. Then let us set forth at once. We shall move as quickly as our comrades' health allows.
To Castrum Oriens!
You saved a good many of my men, and I cannot thank you enough for that.
...But the fact remains: our forces were decimated. In this state, we'll not be mounting an assault on Castellum Velodyna or anywhere else.
We need to be honest with ourselves about our prospects. But first, we need to put our affairs here in order. Afterwards, I'll join you all at Castrum Oriens.
Understood. We will go and speak with General Aldynn.
Pipin has already departed with the wounded, has he? Good. We have completed our search of the Reach and the surrounding area.
As far as we can tell, Zenos and his men returned straightways to Specula Imperatoris after quitting this place. 'Twould seem he's lost interest in us.
Which brings us to the most troubling question of all─not how he found us, but why he chose to spare our lives having done so.
In war, you kill or capture your enemy. You don't leave him to fight another day. Only a fool would turn his back and walk away...but Zenos is no fool.
Whatever his motive, this is neither the time nor the place to think on it. I will leave a token force to watch over the Reach. The rest will fall back to Castrum Oriens. We can discuss our path forward there.
Krile is with Y'shtola. She still hasn't woken up, but...Krile says she's through the worst.
Given the severity of her wound, we could have hoped for no more. Let us pray she makes a full recovery.
We lost a lot of good people, didn't we...
I saw it happen. When that Skulls commander cut down Meffrid. A single blow, and that was it.
Everything he fought for, all his hopes and dreams for the future. Gone in an instant. And do you want to know the worst part? It wasn't a Garlean who did it─it was an Ala Mhigan.
Gods help me, if I ever─No. Not now. Not while the General's waiting.
Oh, Lyse...
Were it not for the swift actions of the Scions and the Alliance, many more would have died. You risked your lives to save ours, and for that we thank you.
There is no need for thanks. We are allies, are we not?
Aye, just so. Let us not dwell on this tragedy, but look to the future.
The future...? I'm sorry, General, but there is no future for us.
We've lost too many... Gods, I can still see Meffrid with that woman standing over him... <sigh> They've ripped the heart out of us, General. They've broken us. Our fight is over.
Master Kemp, please...
I'll always hate them with every fiber of my being. For what they took from us, then and now. Our homeland...our freedom...our bloody children...
You mean the Skulls... The youths who fight for Zenos.
Crania Lupi. The Black Wolf's legacy, and our shame. A unit made up of children born to Ala Mhigan dignitaries who came of age during the occupation.
Sons and daughters of Gyr Abania raised to be proud citizens of the Empire, with all the rights and responsibilities that entails.
It'd be easy to curse them and call them traitors, but they're our children.Our flesh and blood! If the only way to forge the future we want is to cut down our own, then...
Then what was it all for!?
Naago...
What will you say to the families of the fallen─to the mothers and the widows and the orphans? Will you tell them it was all for nothing!?
Listen to the girl. We dare not suffer our comrades' sacrifices to have beenin vain. Now is the time to steel our resolve and press on, painful thoughit may be.
And when Zenos comes back with his army? What then? This isn't the first time, you know. You'll be hard-pressed to find men brave or stupid enough to face him again.
I still can't believe how strong he was. He humiliated us back there,the Warrior of Light included. Gods help us if he's next in line tothe Garlean throne.
Loath though I am to say it, we should not be surprised. Before succeeding van Baelsar in Ala Mhigo, Zenos led the imperial army to Doma, where he crushed the rebellion utterly.
As a matter of fact, Doma remains in his charge to this day. Suffice it to say, Varis's heir is a peerless warrior and an accomplished general. The question is, how are we to contend with such a foe?
Come now, even you have your limits—but then... so too must he... One legatus ruling two provinces a world apart... Yes—divide and conquer. We kindle the flames of revolution in Doma once more, thereby forcing Zenos to fight a war on two fronts.
Interesting... You are suggesting we kindle the flames of revolution in Doma once more, and force Zenos to fight a war on two fronts?
Well...to put it simply, we have one legatus overseeing two provinces a world apart. I say we divide and conquer─we kindle the flames of revolution in Doma once more, thereby forcing Zenos to fight a war on two fronts.
For that, there would need to be someone left to fight on this front by the time you got back. Look, I'll not deny the plan has promise─and I feel for our brothers and sisters in Doma, truly I do─but I fear we lack the strength tosee it through.
Have faith in your people, Master Kemp. Them and the Scions. Hold fast, rebuild, and when all is in place, we shall defeat Zenos together.
If you're going to Doma, I'm coming too. I want to help our friends there...and make sure nothing like this ever happens again.
Give us the time we need, and we will give you something far greater.
Very well. For all you have done for us, we will fight on. But be swift, comrades. Ala Mhigo has suffered enough.
It goes without saying, but the Scions alone have not the strength to topple a provincial government, here or anywhere else.
And I am quite certain the same can be said of the Doman Liberation Front. Nevertheless, we can but go and assess the situation for ourselves, and see what can be done.
Lest you doubt what good we few can accomplish, I would remind you that my grandfather and his twelve disciples once journeyed to these lands to save Eorzea and her people from certain doom. Brave souls with an impossible task. And Eorzea lives on.
Our present mission may not be as monumental in scope, but it is no less important to the multitudes whom we would free from imperial oppression─whom we will free.
“Where men go as one, there is life. And where there is life, there is cause to hope”. Our grandfather believed that, and so do I...
But before we can forge ties with our friends in the Far East, we must first find a way to reach them. Othard is not exactly over the river and through the woods.
I am one step ahead of you, dear sister─or rather, Tataru is. But before we discuss that, there is another issue I wish to address.
Much as I would like it if we could all make this journey together, someone will need to remain to serve as liaison to the Alliance and the Resistance during this critical period. Moreover, as Y'shtola cannot be left unattended...
...Then I should obviously remain? Very well. Issue addressed.
You know, Alphinaud, it would have been quicker just to ask─and markedly less patronizing.
Y-Yes, I suppose, uh... Ahem. Would you be willing to look after Y'shtola and provide support to Arenvald and the others?
Yes, Alphinaud. I would.You see? That wasn't so hard, was it? Enjoy your trip, and don't you dare return with a gift!
Oh, I would not dream of it...Right, then. Sister, Forename, Lyse─gather your things. We are for Limsa Lominsa.
Tataru should be here any moment with our ship's captain.
So we're going by sea after all. Is Merlwyb lending us our pick of the Crimson Fleet?
Not...exactly. You are right, in as much as we will be traveling by sea. Regrettably, it is simply not feasible for an airship to travel such a distance without impossibly large fuel reserves, to say nothing of the inevitability of running afoul of the Empire's aerial defenses.
...But then it is equally infeasible to sail an Eorzean Alliance vessel halfway around the world without the Empire taking notice.
Which leaves us with only one other option... Ah, speak of the devil.
Sorry to keep you waiting! May I present to you Captain Carvallain of the Kraken's Arms!
The Kraken's Arms!? Don't tell me you made a deal with pirates!
Greetings and salutations, Scions. I take it from your comrade's tone that you no longer wish to proceed with our proposed arrangement?
Not at all, Captain. Pray forgive my sister her outburst─she has ever been one to speak her mind. I, on the other hand, am the very soul of discretion, as many well-respected personages would attest, from the offices of the Admiral, to the High Houses of Ishgard.
Ah, but where was I? Oh, yes! The Scions of the Seventh Dawn do indeed still wish to employ your services. However, it is important that you are aware of certain extenuating circumstances...
...And intent on securing passage to the Far East, you came to us, knowing us to be the proud purveyors of said region's finest spices.
...Which you steal from gods-fearing merchants out on the high seas.
Whatever privateering the Kraken's Arms may or may not engage in is strictly within the limits of the law, as set forth by our indefatigable keeper of the peace. More to the point, we are pragmatists. I see considerable risk in aiding your cause, and negligible profit.
Well, I for one think the captain has a point. The five seas can be extremely treacherous, and many a poor, unfortunate soul has to come to grief out there on the waves.
Why, when we were in Ishgard, I heard the tragical tale of how the heir to House Durendaire vanished at sea!
Even now, nearly twenty years later, the poor count remains convinced that his son still lives, and would pay a sultan's ransom for news of his whereabouts...
Hahaha... Ahahahahaha!
Truly a tragedy for the ages, and a testament to the misfortunes that may befall us should we act without...due consideration. But so long as you are prepared to abide the capricious whims of fate, I am willing to oblige you this once.
That said, in light of the recent rebellion, I trust you understand that I cannot deliver you to Doma itself. I can take you only as far as Kugane, in Hingashi.
We will require time to procure sufficient provisions and make ready for departure. I humbly suggest you do the same.
Suddenly, all those hours Tataru passed cavorting and capering at the Forgotten Knight seem rather better spent, do they not?
(That said, I had intended to press the point more obliquely... And there was something disconcerting about the pleasure Tataru took in making Captain Carvallain squirm...)
I say we should heed the captain's advice and attend to our own preparations while they ready the vessel for departure.
Tataru and I will procure the necessary supplies. Alisaie...I should be grateful if you would use the time to brief Urianger on recent developments. You may also wish to review the relevant safety procedures in the event of an emergency at sea.
How...how very prudent of you. Very well, I shall go and speak with him. What of Forename and Lyse?
I would like the two of you to return to Revenant's Toll and speak with our Doman allies. I fear we know too little of their homeland, and any information they can provide would be most welcome.
When we have completed our respective tasks, we will reconvene here at the ferry docks. Agreed?
Sounds like a plan! Let's go, Forename!
Well, here we are. We'll need to talk to lots of people, so I think we should split up.
I'll ask around at the House of Splendors. You take the Rising Stones. I'll meet you here after. Got it?
You are truly planning to travel to Doma? I...I do not know what to say...Forgive me. I shall aid you to the best of my ability.
Ours is a beautiful land, nestled on the eastern coast of Othard. Along the banks of the One River, our nation thrived, proud and free, until the Garleans came, twenty-five years ago...
The river was our lifeblood, free to travel and to fish...but travel was soon restricted, and now the river belongs to none...
Greetings, Forename. What brings you to the Toll this day?
What? You are for Doma? Heavens... You Scions have shown us naught but kindness, but never in my wildest dreams did I imagine you would fight for our homeland...
For twenty-five years we suffered under their tyranny. And then we spied an opportunity─the Emperor, dead! Garlemald in chaos!
It seemed the time was ripe. Beneath our lord's banners we gathered, and fought to reclaim our nation. But when Zenos arrived with the XIIth Legion, it was over in an instant...
Hm? What is it, my friend? You look as though you have something to ask.
That you go to join Yugiri and Gosetsu in the fight fills me with such joy! Ah, forgive my exuberance. You require information, yes?
We of the Nagae clan have served Doma faithfully for generations. My ancestors held positions within Doma Castle, even. Now it is home to the imperial viceroy's witch, and her host of men and magitek.
To think that what was once the shining symbol of our heritage─and the seat of dear Lord Kaien─has become a den for Garlean dogs...
Ah, there you are! Learn anything interesting? The older Domans I spoke with tried to teach me all about Far Eastern customs and the importance of formality and politeness...
I'd like to think Eorzeans can be just as stiff and stuffy as anyone─especially Ishgardians─but anyway... Did you know they eat with sticks? It wasn't all that hard, actually─or at least, that's what I thought until they told me I was holding them wrong. And then when I spoke with the younger Domans, they just rolled their eyes and told me it was all a load of stupid old─ Hm?
Wow... What you learned sounds a lot more useful. Unless someone invites us for dinner, of course. I hope they do.
Right. No point waiting around here, is there?
We should head back to Limsa Lominsa. Alphinaud said to meet at the ferry docks, I think?
You are returned, Forename. I trust you learned much from our Doman friends in Revenant's Toll.
I am eager to hear all─though that can wait until we have left port. We will have time enough to talk on our journey to Kugane.
Our spice-trading friends have completed their preparations. Assuming you have completed yours, you may inform the deckhand that we are ready to depart.
