Give them no quarter, Flames!
Defend the airship! Kill the savages!
What are you doing? Kill them, I said!
Where's that bloody vanguard? We need it NOW!
Hahaha! Show them no mercy!
Wedge: Biggs!
Biggs: Wedge! You shouldn't have stayed with the ship!
Wedge: Th-That was a close one!
Biggs: Too damn close. So...how's she look, anyway?
Wedge: The auxiliary propeller is a dead loss, but I think we can wring enough thrust from the main propeller to get us airborne.
Biggs: A few minor modifications and we should be able to fly the Tiny Bronco home.
Flame Lieutenant: The imperials will come looking for their scouts, but we can defend this position until the engineers leave.
Flame Lieutenant: You should go, Forename. You still have unfinished business to attend to at the Hall of Flames.
Flame Lieutenant: You're not quite one of us yet, though anyone who'd seen you in action today would be forgiven for thinking otherwise.
Biggs: I, um...just wanted to say sorry...you know, for calling you an imperial spy and all that... Got that one wrong, didn't I!? Ha ha! Seriously, though─if it hadn't been for you and the Twin Adder lads there, we'd be chained up in a dungeon by now. I'm in your debt, friend─we both are.
Biggs: Wedge!
Wedge: Thank you! We're very grateful!
Welcome back, Forename. Word of your deeds in the field reached me not long ago. Exemplary service!
Rest assured that the Garlond Ironworks engineers are fine. They were able to get their vessel back in the air before imperial reinforcements arrived.
Your willingness to assist us on such short notice is to be commended. Clearly, your reputation is well deserved.
Now then, I believe we have some unfinished business.
Shall we continue from where we left off and induct you into the Immortal Flames?
Are you ready, Forename? Then let us begin.
Forename Surname—you stand poised to enter a sacred trust.
The Flames of Ul'dah burn bright, casting light where there is dark and purging evil wheresoever it lurks.
We are ever ready to meet the nation's enemies in battle, be they beastmen, Galreans, or worse.
And at a word from Flame General Raubahn Aldynn, we would gladly lay down our lives to maintain the peace and prosperity of Ul'dah.
To join our ranks, you must forsake all other nations. Only then may you commit yourself to the fire and be reborn as an Immortal Flame.
Burn as one of us, Forename Surname, and together we shall chase the darkness from Ul'dah!
Will you swear an oath to mark this occasion?
Spoken like a soldier! You'll do well here.
And Ul'dah will have need of them in the days ahead. The knowledge and experience of well-traveled adventurers are valuable assets.
Hah! The Flame General would lead the van in every battle if he could. 'Twouldn't surprise me if you had the chance to fight by his side one day!
I take it you would rather be judged by your deeds. I respect that. We want a woman of action, not words.
Very well. Your resolve is plain. Forename Surname—I hereby confer upon you the rank of flame private third class. Welcome to the Immortal Flames, Private.
May you fight to the last for coin and country.
Can you hear me, Forename? This is Minfilia.
An officer of the Order of the Immortal Flames contacted me with news of your enlistment. My congratulations, Private Surname.
I have no doubt that you are eager to make the acquaintance of your new comrades, but I would ask that you pay a visit to your old ones first. Remember: though you are now a Flame of Ul'dah, you are no less a Scion! Pray return to the Waking Sands at your earliest convenience. There are some friends here whom I would very much like you to meet. We shall be waiting!
It seems your presence is required elsewhere.
But before you leave, perhaps you could find a moment to speak with Commander Swift. He is not one to see new recruits go into the field unprepared.
Welcome back, Forename! Lady Minfilia awaits you within.
Welcome back! It seems you wasted no time putting your skills to work!
How do I know? Why, the recruitment officer called to regale me with the tale of your heroics. The pride in his voice was palpable!
We Scions are truly fortunate to have you with us, Forename.
Now, when last we spoke, I said that I wanted you to meet some friends, did I not? Well, I neglected to mention that you have already met.
Tataru─please show them in.
This way, sirs!
Thanks again for getting us out of that mess. We owe you our lives.
But I don't think we've properly introduced ourselves. I'm Biggs.
A-And I'm...I'm...
Gods, man, spit it out, will you!?
W-Wedge, at your service!
I am pleased to say that Biggs and Wedge will be staying with us for a while.
Magitek-driven contraptions such as airships grow ever more vital to the city-states of Eorzea. As a neutral party, it was judged that we Scions should serve as the keepers of this technology.
Of course, for this we needed the knowledge of experts. And so we requested the assistance of Garlond Ironworks, who very kindly sent us two of their finest engineers.
Our happy family continues to grow. On behalf of the Scions, I bid you welcome to the Waking Sands!
Like every soul here, I love Eorzea.
And I count myself blessed to have been given this chance to stand with you all and fight for the future of the realm.
Never have I known such fulfillment─such happiness.
Now, having set aside the formalities...
...We have a favor to ask of you.
Urianger. Have the documents arrived from the Students of Baldesion?
Aye, my lady, they arrived but recently.
We have conducted a study at the behest of the Order of the Twin Adder.
Papalymo, Yda─a synopsis, if you would.
Our task was to survey the behavior of the sylphs, a beast tribe indigenous to the Twelveswood.
Oh, how to describe them... They look like...gysahl greens? Floating ones! That worship the primal Ramuh.
Ahem. Though technically a “beast tribe,” sylphs are blessed with a comparatively personable demeanor, conducive to peaceful communication.
Offering us an invaluable opportunity to learn what the beast tribes know of the primals.
While Ramuh's existence is well documented, the sylphs do not─or perhaps, can not─summon the primal any longer, insofar as can be ascertained. Until such time as we know...
...It would be unwise to assume that the threat posed by the primal has passed.
Which leaves Gridania with the added worry of not knowing what they should be worrying about!
In that regard, they are hardly alone. What we can say with absolute certainty is that Gridania has its hands full fending off Garuda.
Who, I need hardly remind you, is among the most savage and terrible of all known primals.
In short, it is essential that we approach the sylphs in as diplomatic a manner as possible.
Words and actions can be misconstrued. The only sure way to communicate our intentions is the Echo.
Winning the sylphs' favor may well bring us a step closer to mitigating the threat of the primals. Will you help us?
I am grateful.
Lovely! Well, as much as I'd like to help, I'm afraid I would be of little use to anyone in Gridania. A veritable babe in the woods.
Yda and Papalymo, however, should be able to see the forest for the trees. Is that not so, Minfilia?
Indeed. You are willing?
Leave it to me!
Us, Yda. Us!
