Who's there? My eyes, they... I can't see all that well...
Aaah... Thank you. The numbness has subsided a little.
But I know...I won't last much longer. You should look to the others who can still fight. Give them my ration...
If me going hungry means someone else lives to see another day, so be it. Least I can still serve in that way...
Would...would you stay with me a little longer...? Hold my hand... Yours are so much warmer...
So those you met fare no better? I was afraid you would say that.
I know we were warned against meddling in their affairs, but we can't leave them like this. Perhaps we might gain permission to have the contingent deliver supplies?
Quintus may have made his feelings on the matter quite clear, but even he must recognize they are not in a position to refuse help...
Maybe Jullus could persuade him? Though we'd need to persuade Jullus first...
Just a little more...
Well? Seen enough?
Jullus, the people here have barely enough food and fuel to survive. Have you and the other soldiers been able to procure any more supplies?
We've been scavenging provisions from the nearby houses, as most families keep─kept, rather─some stored away in the event they were snowed in.
Still, going out and getting it is dangerous work, and we've a lot of mouths to feed.
Fuel is the greater concern, though. We had some ceruleum set aside...until it was stolen.
We haven't identified the culprit. Could've been other refugees, or one of the afflicted for all we know.
Either way, we're down to the last dregs. Without the heating they need, those in poor health are only going to get worse instead of better...
If it's ceruleum you need, our contingent has secured a ready supply. We can have some sent over!
We will not accept your charity.
If we can hold on a little longer, the situation is sure to change. Aye─everything will change...
Heard something of it, have you? Well. From what I've seen, there's little you could do to interfere, so there's no harm in telling you.
One of our scouts spotted a hooded man issuing instructions to the afflicted─or in the bastard's words, “loyal servants of the Telophoroi.”
Then, he made his way inside the imperial palace─or what stands in its place.
We'd identified the seat of the enemy's power, we realized. Lord Quintus dispatched a messenger to the Xth Legion saying as much, and instructing them to join forces with the provincial legions. To prepare for a combined assault on the Telophoroi.
Once our allies arrive, your contingent will be sent running for the hills. Then, we shall reclaim the capital by our own hand!
And how do you intend to survive in the meantime? At this rate, many of your countrymen will perish long before reinforcements reach Garlemald.
They need help now. Say the word, and we will bring you ceruleum.
...I will speak with Lord Quintus.
So? Did he agree to it?
No. He will not place Garlemald in the debt of her enemies.
I have, however, been ordered to search for ceruleum outside. As you are under my watch, you will come with me.
Very well. After all, many hands make light work.
<sigh> You lot are more trouble than you're worth.
Once we are outside, you will follow my instructions to the letter. We depart shortly.
Although this is hardly the solution we had in mind, it will have to suffice for the time being.
Without our healing magicks, there's little we can do for these people beyond offer words of encouragement. But this way we'll be able to offer them tangible assistance.
We will begin our search for ceruleum in Regio Urbanissima.
The first location is Forum Solius, a park to the northwest of this station.
You are to remain close at all times and act only as ordered. Follow me.
This is the place.
To think this macabre graveyard for warmachina was once a park...
So, this is the park... I'm surprised they found space for one amongst all these buildings.
Actually, the recreational areas came first. The houses were later built around them.
“A healthy society requires communal spaces for children to play, and adults to socialize.”
This park was named after the founding father of the Empire, the great Solus zos Galvus.
Did we come to extract ceruleum from the wrecked magitek armor?
No, we've already drained it dry. Same goes for the rest of the machina in the vicinity.
But as our ceruleum has been stolen, we must scour the city for every last drop.
And while I don't expect to find anything here, I've decided to try one more time, in case something has been overlooked.
I see. Then with your permission, we will commence the search.
I don't imagine there would be much need for magitek in a park of all places, but then again, I wasn't raised in Garlemald. They may have uses for ceruleum that I've yet to consider.
This...whatever-it-is appears to have some sort of symbolic meaning relating to this park. Even though the place is named after Solus, it doesn't seem to be a statue of him. Well, at least not anymore.
Maybe it was once a fountain? Or somewhere the man himself used to sit? Not that it would matter, even if we knew, but I can't help wondering.
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
Oh, it's you. Any luck?
There's no sign of any ceruleum.
Hmm... Hardly surprising, but disappointing nonetheless.
I couldn't help noticing you gazing at the pond. Is something the matter?
What? Yes─ I mean, no, I'm...
It's just...I used to bring my brother and sister here to play.
The pond was heated to stop it from freezing over, so like all the other children, they just had to wade in and splash about. Would've stayed there if I didn't drag them out. We'd be sopping wet when all was said and done. Every time.
And every time, when we'd get home, Mother would scold us, saying we'd catch our death walking around like that...
The pond was heated...
With a ceruleum-powered heater, by chance?
I suppose it must have been... Come to think of it, I remember seeing engineers changing out a tank beneath a hatch...
But that was a long time ago, when the water still flowed clear and wasn't this...brackish muck.
We can't see a thing, and I can't remember where the hatch might be.
With the machinery most likely broken, the amount of filth in there is probably the only reason it hasn't frozen over. I'd wager it's still unbearably cold, though.
Jullus...what are your thoughts on magic?
The average Garlean would jump out of their skin if they saw it. But the Ist has a few foreign signiferi and medici, so it doesn't scare me.
Then I take it you won't mind if I employ a little now.
Alphinaud, as you have a knack for finding dry wood, why don't you bring me some? Once that's done, a blast of Verfire should do the trick.
Leave it to me!
You're not planning to go in there, are you?
Of course I am. That tank isn't going to fetch itself.
It's nothing so involved as extracting unprocessed ceruleum from a frozen lake like how the tappers do it. We're talking about a shallow pond in a park. And we have a way of warming ourselves up after.
But that's...insane!
So, fancy a dip?
Last one to find a ceruleum tank is a rotten egg! Though I daresay we'll both smell like rotten eggs when this is over...
If you're that concerned for my well-being, you can dive in and help me look! The quicker we find that ceruleum, the sooner we can get out of here.
That may be the stupidest thing I've heard in a while! And that's saying something considering who my brother is.
I can't fault your enthusiasm, though. Let's do it my way first, and if that doesn't work...perhaps then you can try your method. With Alphinaud's help.
I can't believe what I'm seeing...
G-G-Gods be good, it's cold! Perhaps we sh-sh-should've listened to Jullus after all!
G-G-Gods be good, it's cold! Perhaps we sh-sh-should've listened to Jullus after all!
G-G-Gods be good, it's cold! Perhaps we sh-sh-should've listened to Jullus after all!
G-G-Gods be good, it's cold! Perhaps we sh-sh-should've listened to Jullus after all!
G-G-Gods be good, it's cold! Perhaps we sh-sh-should've listened to Jullus after all!
You f-f-found it!? Hmph! There must be another one around here s-s-somewhere!
Did you find anything? <sniff> <sniff> I hope you did...
That's it!
And there's still some ceruleum left!
Ah, the fire's still not ready... Hold on, I'll give Alphinaud a hand!
Call me an Ul'dahn because by fire I am reborn...and my clothes are mostly dry now, too.
I appreciate you recovering the ceruleum, but I wish you'd taken the time to discuss the plan with me beforehand.
Despite the way you've been treated, in Lord Quintus's eyes, you're still envoys deserving of protection. If you were to die on my watch, he would be most displeased.
Your concern is duly noted, but all's well that ends well.
Jullus, you mentioned coming here with your younger siblings. Did you grow up in Garlemald?
I did. Not far from here.
My father was an accomplished researcher in his youth, and for his contributions to the Empire awarded an estate. We lived well─better than many.
What was Garlemald like in those days?
...Everything. It was everything you could imagine...and so much more.
Even during the coldest winters, we always found warmth and comfort at home.
Coming in from the snow, taking off your coat and sitting down for a hot meal...with family...
Visiting friends and relatives, receiving that same welcome. Knowing they had everything they needed.
Walking down the street, seeing the lights in all the houses, hearing the faint sounds of laughter and song. Of happiness...
And although the summers came and went all too quickly, in that brief respite, the ice would melt and the forgotten grass make its triumphant return.
Grey clouds gave way to blue skies. Some mornings, we'd climb to the top of the tallest building we could find to watch the sun rise...
...Never again. Those rooftops are rubble. Those friends dead, and those memories... But if I could reclaim even a fraction of what we once had...
Soon, our chance will come. We just need to hold on a little longer...
Well, at least my clothes are finally dry. Though they could still do with a proper wash.
Owing to the wealth of experience I've accrued in gathering firewood, I was even able to provide Jullus with some basic pointers on the subject. I thought it might help to further build a rapport...and to distract him from his other concerns.
All right, now that you've recovered from your escapades in the pond, there's another location I'd like to search, just outside the park.
Everything was built on an enormous scale, and with thick, cleanly cut stone─much like Amaurot. Given what we now know, such similarities are no coincidence.
The warmachina appears to be patrolling the area of its own volition. I wonder whether it is simply following its original orders, or if it now serves the Telophoroi...
As you can see, this place is littered with the remnants of various types of warmachina.
While my comrades and I have already recovered the tanks from the less-damaged units, those that took a more severe beating are harder to scavenge. We decided to save those for another time─that time being now.
Rather than prise them apart, piece by piece, it would be quicker to remove the outer casing using compact explosives. With luck, we'll gain access to the tanks without rupturing them.
Though the force generated by these devices is relatively weak, I would advise you stand well clear to avoid being hit by any shrapnel.
Before even bothering, though, you should check the machina's ceruleum gauge to see if there is any left. It should still provide an accurate reading even when the unit itself is inactive.
If the gauge is broken... I'll let you decide whether to use an explosive or not. Should you need more, come to me.
Understood. Let's get to work.
You still have the explosives I gave you, yes?
Remember to check the ceruleum gauge before attempting to remove the outer casing.
If the gauge has been damaged and you can't determine if there's any fuel left to recover, use your best judgment.
If the gauge has been damaged and you can't determine if there's any fuel left to recover, use your best judgment.
If the gauge has been damaged and you can't determine if there's any fuel left to recover, use your best judgment.
If the gauge has been damaged and you can't determine if there's any fuel left to recover, use your best judgment.
If the gauge has been damaged and you can't determine if there's any fuel left to recover, use your best judgment.
Need some more? Here.
I've a fair amount of explosives to spare today, but tomorrow is another story. We can't afford to waste them on units with nothing to offer, so be sure to check the gauge first.
Of course, if the gauge is damaged, it's up to you to make the call.
Of course, if the gauge is damaged, it's up to you to make the call.
Of course, if the gauge is damaged, it's up to you to make the call.
More explosives? ...Wait, is that what I think it is?
You've done it again! Truly, luck is on your side.
With this, we should be able to refuel quite a few of our heaters.
It's time we headed back. Wait here while I go and see how Alisaie and Alphinaud are faring.
Finally escaped the watchful gaze of your keepers, have we?
Don't react. You'll only draw attention to yourself. Just carry on as you are and listen.
After you left with the Garlean lad, Lucia bade a few of us scouts follow you at a discreet distance.
We observed you being led into the station, but decided against venturing inside.
When you emerged some time later, and we saw that the twins were sporting magitek collars, it was clear what had taken place.
Now, as quietly as you can, tell me everything.
The legatus himself, eh? Now there's a surprise.
This is also the first I've heard of a plan to join forces with the Xth and storm the Tower of Babil.
An interesting development...and perhaps the opportunity we've been waiting for.
Our comrades back at the camp also received some rather promising news, but it's still too early to get our hopes up.
For now, keeping yourselves out of harm's way comes before all else. Whatever demands the Garleans make, indulge them.
With luck, this will all be over soon. Until then.
They had not gone far.
We searched high and low, but no luck, I'm afraid. I might've guessed you'd be the only one to find anything.
I wasn't expecting much to begin with. Eventually, there will be nothing left out here for us to safely salvage.
For now, this will have to suffice. We should return to the station.
