Um...
Here, for you. Have you come for the festivities?
Today the Maelstrom officially makes that great hole in the sea its training ground. Join in the celebrations!
Wait. A disturbance in the aetheric flow. But whence does it emanate?
...Seasong Grotto, perhaps?
What have we here...? Can you walk?
'Tis I.Regrettably, no. He eluded me.Understood. I will inform the commodore.
You collapsed from your exertions. Are you suitably recovered?
Sevrin here has apprised me of all that transpired. His account shed some light upon how you came to be attacked by a golem of all things.
A golem is a mindless automaton, inert save when commanded to be otherwise. Common pirates could not hope to control such a thing, so arcane are its workings.
But then these tattooed wretches are no common pirates─they are the minions of the Sahagin. As to their purpose...well, I shall get to the bottom of it.
But first I must escort Sevrin back to his place of employment. I daresay Staelwyrn will be wondering what has become of him.
And you too, for that matter. I will bear word to him of your preservation, but I am certain he would like to thank you in person. Pray pay the man a visit.
Ah...he told me of you, but perchance he did not tell you of me. My name is Y'shtola.
I am...a naturalist of sorts, surveying the aether in the hope that it might offer up some clue as to our predicament.
I'd say I owed you my life...but that don't cover it. If it weren't for you, my friends would be dead, an' all...
'Tis a debt I can never repay. But I'll not make things worse by runnin' away. Take me to Summerford Farms, an' I'll face the consequences.
For reasons I cannot fathom, you seem...Forgive me. Mayhap we shall have a chance to speak again when I have marshaled my thoughts.
Until our paths next cross, farewell.
Lo! I knew you'd return.
Y'shtola delivered Sevrin a bit ago. Tales of your heroic deeds precede you!
The rest came shufflin' back, too─the lot of 'em sportin' the same haunted expression.
It's me who's to blame for that─that an' the rest.
I was once a Serpent Reaver.
...A thrall to the Sahagin? Seven hells... Reavers may look and sound and act like pirates, but they're naught but the fishbacks' flunkies.
Us pirates ain't much for laws, but there's things we won't do. We've got a code, see─but the Reavers've never followed a word of it. A few years back, they started snatchin' law-abidin' Lominsans.
I'd only just taken my oath when our captain bent the knee to his new Sahagin masters. I knew I had to get away.
So I crept off one night, got myself a new name, an' found myself a new home─Summerford Farms. Trouble is, secrets don't stay secret for long 'round here, an' word soon spread...all the way back to the sea.
The penalty for desertion is death, but the Reavers offered me a way out instead─my freedom in exchange for my mates'.
The letter...
I dunno what I was thinkin'... <snort> I wasn't bloody thinkin'. Too busy soilin' meself.
Aye, but you got there in the end, didn't you? When the time came, you made the right decision.
The men say little to me, but I hear 'em talk of how you stood up to the Reavers at the last─of how you tried to give your life to save theirs.
Be that as it may, no deed, however good, can atone for the crime of betrayin' your brethren.
I know that─I do. That's why I'm going to hand myself over to the Yellowjackets. I'll bring shame to the farm no more.
Hm. You'll hear no arguments from me. Each man must sail accordin' to his own moral compass.
I just hope yours guides you back here someday. There will always be a place for you at Summerford Farms, lass.
An' I'll always be in your debt, Staelwyrn.
I owe you a debt too, Forename. Not once have you let me down. Thank you for savin' the men of my farm.
If I could ask one more favor of you, it'd be this: tell Baderon what's happened, from start to finish. I'm certain he'd put in a good word for Sevrin if he knew the whole story.
And he's one of the few people I know who the Yellowjackets'll listen to.
Well, I reckon I've asked all I can possibly ask of you. Safe travels, lass.
...Bloody 'ells! Life on the farm ain't quite 'ow I pictured it!
Ah, but ye needn't worry yerself over young Sevrin. The Yellowjacket as 'ands out the punishments is a good mate o' mine. If I ask 'im nice, I reckon 'e'd be willin' to commute the lad's sentence from 'angin' to keelhaulin', kindly gent that 'e is....Ah, I'm only jestin' with ye! I'll see 'e's treated fair.
Now, it sounds to me like ye've done everythin' ol' Staelwyrn asked o' ye an' more─justifyin' me generous finder's fee in the process. Much obliged, lass!
As fer a reward...well, she's a lonely lady, this Drownin' Wench o' mine. 'Ow'd ye fancy keepin' 'er company fer a spell...with free room an' board?
'Venturin's a tryin' business, after all. Them as don't rest their bones every now an' again tend to end up with broken ones. An' take it from me: fightin' ain't nearly so much fun when yer nursin' a shattered arm. Got that? Good. There'll always be a free bed fer ye, so make use of it.
Not that ye'll 'ave much time fer lyin' around, what with all the leves ye'll be doin'. Oh, didn't I mention? I'm puttin' yer name down fer leves.
Our guild draws all manner o' clients, offerin' all manner of odd jobs. Honestly, ye'd be amazed 'ow much folk'll pay to avoid doin' an honest day's labor.
Just give T'mokkri a shout whenever ye feel like makin' a few extra gil. She'll always 'ave some task or other fer ye to do.
Oh, an' it's all above board, 'case yer wonderin'. We're careful to stay on the Admiral's right side in 'ere─unlike some pirates I could mention... I tell ye, if it turns out they 'ad aught to do with them kidnappin's, there'll be seven hells to pay. A proper bleedin' reckonin'...
Mayhap that's what Limsa needs, though. On rough seas, sometimes ye 'ave to rock the boat to right it.
But we'll 'ave time fer such talk when yer well an' rested. Till then, enjoy the Wench's 'ospitality!
'Ow do ye fare, Forename? Rested and ready to expand yer 'orizons?
Well, then, I've an idea o' where ye might try 'eadin' next. 'Ave ye 'eard o' the Skylift out in middle La Noscea?
If ye've ever visited Woad Whisper Canyon, then ye must've been up and down the thing at least once. It's that big bleedin' scaffoldin' attached to the Descent.
Ye've likely seen the lads and lasses out there usin' it to 'aul cargo up the cliff face. 'Ard labor, that, and I 'ear they could use an enterprisin' soul to pick up the odd jobs what no other bugger 'as time to deal with.
Track down the 'ead o' the operation─bloke by the name o' Wyrkrhit─and 'e'll be sure to put ye to work on a task or two.
