Whatever it is, I don't have time. I have to finish repairing this cart.
There's only so much I can carry on my back. When those hollow devils come again, I need to be ready.
Vow Wuk Lamat and Vow Koana mean well, but they're young and inexperienced. They can barely look after themselves. If we're to survive, I do not know if we can count on them.
They're going to strike back at the enemy? So they're resolved to face this...
Maybe it is too early to be thinking of running... Alright, I'll go and hear their address.
It seems Krile and Erenville have yet to return. Still busy making preparations for our expedition, I presume.
Did you not see Alisaie on your way here?
I was just discussing the gate to the golden city with Ketenramm. He has been patiently answering my few questions.
"A few questions“? More like a bleedin' broadside of 'em. Took me back to me time with Galuf, it did. Sharlayan scholars, I swear...
Thank you again for spreading word of our address. I fear those who needed assurance most would not have been present otherwise.
It looks like you've brought quite a few people. Thank you.
Alisaie had actually returned ahead of you, but upon hearing that you were still out there, she decided she was unsatisfied with her own efforts and left again.
My apologies for involving you all in Turali affairs.
We are simply helping dear friends in need. Having traveled the lands of Tural, sharing in the rich cultures of your people, I can see it no other way.
What's more, Zoraal Ja and his army pose a threat not only to Tural, but to the star as a whole.
We will stand with you, to protect what you hold dear.
Thank you.
I don't expect you've had much, if any, rest. How are you holding up?
I'm fine, thanks to a little encouragement from Forename.
You needn't worry about me either.
Whatever weariness I feel is no match for my desire to protect my people.
We will restore peace to the nation and preserve our father's legacy...
And it begins by speaking to the people from our hearts.
Right!
We need to see to a few things first, but feel free to go ahead to the plaza and wait.
Their father raised them well.
That he did.
Lamaty'i, are you all right?
Yes. Don't worry.
I'm ready for it. The fear and sadness and anger─everything.
I am the reason to your resolve. But more than that, I am your brother. You needn't bear this burden alone. Remember this.
As you likely already know, my father, our former Dawnservant, lost his life in the recent attack.
He challenged the enemy leader to a duel and fought with skill and valor. And for a moment, we believed he had won.
But wielding an unknown power, his foe returned from death and struck him down.
I could only watch as this happened. I could not tarnish my father's honor by interfering.
Many of you have suffered terribly. You've taken wounds. You've lost friends and family.
As Vow of Resolve, I failed in my duty to protect you. Words can't express the shame and regret I feel.
And as much as it pains me to reveal this, the enemy leader was none other than my brother Zoraal Ja.
