An Introduction: The successful creation of migratory birds, which travel between continents with the seasons, came as a breath of fresh air to the long-stagnant realm of flying life-forms.In the end, it was a relatively simple thing to grant creatures the ability to navigate by celestial bodies, but this method lacked the precision needed to guide them to the same location each time, as would be vital to their survival.The breakthrough came in the form of magnetic fields, the use of which was discovered by the incumbent Fandaniel during his tenure as chief overseer of Elpis. A truly inspired idea that has brought lasting benefits to the star!
So, it comes to this.
I've no wish to fight. But this time, I cannot yield.
Though the world may think me a mad, desperate fool, I will hold fast to my conviction.
To protect Meteion, he would go so far as to transform...
So far as to make himself a villain...
I will have the time and tranquility I require.
Gust and gale, gather to me!
Ancient brand, unleash your power!
Dancing winds, pierce my foes!
Stars on high, fall as rain!
Streams of aether, surge as one!
Even when transformed... But I am not finished yet!
No... My power..
A merry chase he led us on.
Hopefully he has calmed down a little...
Let us leave the rest to Emet-Selch.
It's over, Hermes. In the name of the Convocation, I hereby take Meteion into custody.
And setting aside the matter of your nomination, you will come with us, too. We require your knowledge to assess and resolve the situation.
Meteion... I'm so sorry... Would that I could have listened to your report in full...
Reflected upon its meaning and conveyed it to others─that they might reconsider their chosen course...
But I have failed, and that wish will never be realized. However...
Ere our fates become the province of others, I bid you tell me...just one thing.
Was there happiness in those distant stars?
Was there a reason for living?
We conducted our search as per your instructions.
We scoured historical records. Communed with the spirits of the deceased.
Heard the final testaments of the dying. Welcomed their shadowed hearts into our own.
One race had striven to create a world bereft of animosity.
They renounced relationships to avoid interpersonal strife, and in so doing brought about societal collapse.
One race had renounced war and devoted itself to the enrichment of its people.
They were conquered. Though they destroyed the enemy in reprisal, they could not regain their former glory.
One race had concluded that finite time was the root of all woes. Aspiring to shatter its shackles, they went in search of infinity.
They discovered nothing is infinite, and that neither time or death can be cheated. Disillusioned, they gave up on the future─and themselves.
One race had discarded all things that gave rise to sorrow, hoping to have only joy.
They found joy lost its savor in the absence of sorrow, and lost their will to live.
Though worlds apart, these peoples shared a belief. The belief that they had tried their best.
That they had tried to fulfill their potential, with every step and success.
In the course of which they learned the truth.
That they would never be free of fear and sorrow, anger and despair─of loneliness─so long as they yet lived.
Even now, their souls cry out for oblivion. And to this song of anguish, I lend my voice. We lend our voice.
O beloved mankind, shimmering jewels of beautiful Etheirys... Rejoice, for we will free you from the cruel yoke of existence.
There is no need to struggle in vain, for in nihility awaits salvation. You will know peace and serenity...and it will be beautiful.
We will make our nest at the edge of the universe, and there in the dark of dead worlds hoard sorrow and suffering.
There we will sing, our chorus ever louder and ever clearer, that our song may reach even this aether-shrouded star.
Such is the answer we have found in the stars. Such is the gift we now offer to Etheirys.
Who are you to decide our fate? To decree we live or die?
Have you lost your mind!? You heard what she said! She means to destroy us all, yet you'd still take her side!?
In the name of the star, we have discarded those creations that we deemed flawed.
If we ourselves are flawed, does it not stand to reason that we too should be discarded?
That is sophistry and you know it!
Perhaps it is. Perhaps I am wrong. But who is to say that you are right?
Let us settle this with a determination.
In my authority as chief overseer of Elpis, I will make a judgment on man's fitness to exist.
If he can learn to value all life and retain his will to live, even should his end be justified, he will surely find a way to avert his demise.
If not, he will perish from the star.
As with all determinations, provisions must be made to ensure fairness.
Kairos! Awaken!
