Puff your tails and scurry off, then! Cowards like you ill deserve the bounty of this forest.
Even should one of you succeed in vanquishing the other, your triumph will last only until a new invader arrives.
Tell me─do you know of the vast continent that lies far to the east, where numerous nations vie for dominance?
You do not─and why should you? Affairs beyond the salt we have no intention to cross are of no consequence to us.
Not until those affairs come to Tural─like our honored visitor here.
He's from across the ocean?
I've been to the ocean before, and it's nothing but water farther than the eye can see! What sort of vessel could possibly reach its end?
That such technology exists is indisputable─as is foreign powers' awareness of Tural.
If any such country were to develop a taste for Turali soil, and bring to bear the might of innovations we can only imagine─what do you suppose happens then?
You do not know the warlords of the east. But you know that if they came, they would not settle for a single forest.
By joining hands, we might create a unified front─an alliance capable of repelling them or any other foe.
There is no greater proof of this than my companions and I. Alone we are weak, but together we triumphed over Valigarmanda.
What!? You defeated the Skyruin!?
I'd take you for a liar if the sting of our own defeat wasn't still fresh.
Their coordination was indeed impressive. How the Pelupelu stymied our efforts to cripple the Yok Huy's legs and defend our ballistas...
And when we withdrew to strike again from a distance, the Hanuhanu called the winds to make our arrows miss their marks. In seeking to exploit their weaknesses, we only subjected ourselves to their strengths.
Those strengths are born of cooperation─the guiding principle of the nation we envision.
But our feud has lasted for centuries. How do you expect us to join hands now?
Give us an evening to convince you.
And so began that legendary banquet.
One would not expect sworn enemies to abruptly drink to each other's health. And indeed, a tense silence hung over the venue.
But then the Dawnservant called for the exchange of traditional cuisine. So it was that the Mamool Ja partook of spiced meat, and the Xbr'aal steamed najool.
Before long, delight manifested upon the faces of those present, each side impressed by the other's dish. Seeing this, the Dawnservant laughed and declared once more.
Their flavors, he said, would be even better combined. And he proceeded to help them prepare the new creation.
That's xibruq pibil, I'd wager!
It is a marriage of Xbr'aal and Mamool Ja cultures, and proof of their newfound cooperation.
The Dawnservant had asked for a single evening, but the feasting is said to have lasted three days and three nights, so delicious was their repast.
In the end, a peace accord was reached, and the Dawnservant's words at that time still illuminate our way forward.
Ignorance begets strife.
Understanding begets fellowship.
Ahahahahahaha!
Sorry, sorry...
It's just...to think that he ended an age-old conflict with food... It's all so absurd, yet somehow so very Papa, I couldn't help but laugh.
"Ignorance begets strife. Understanding begets fellowship“...
Now then, I trust you understand the significance of xibruq pibil and the history it has written?
Absolutely! Thank you for sharing the story with us.
What's wrong?
Someone was there, you say?
Perhaps our competition is cooking up some scheme or another.
Something bitter and half-baked, no doubt...
I never imagined our father was instrumental to xibruq pibil's invention...
I hope I have been of sufficient service to the Third Promise.
Papa really did live up to his words. He traveled the land and learned about our people's myriad cultures.
And we're doing the same now...
It's thanks to Wuk Evu that we were able to learn this forest's history.
That's twice now that he's helped us. To think that we might never have met him if we hadn't thought to fix the float...
Wuk Evu has given us valuable insight into the origins of xibruq pibil.
However, we are still no closer to procuring the necessary najool leaves. Unless...
Tell me─was that historic feast commemorated in some fashion? With a monument, for instance?
Indeed it was. Allow me to show you.
What does Koana want with a monument?
It is only speculation, but I dare to hope...
Here it is.
Offered up by the two factions, these weapons symbolize their vow that they would never again raise arms against each other.
Since this feat demands a journey through history, I thought it only logical that a monument like this might steer us true.
Especially one at the heart of so significant a battlefield.
Lamaty'i, Forename─would you help me search this area for clues? Tell me if anything catches your eye.
Sure thing!
Look here─this soil has been recently overturned.
Oooh, someone buried a box!
Well, well... I would have been satisfied to find only a hint, but here they are─fresh najool leaves.
Hunmu Rruk's doing, I'd wager. There's a poetry in hiding them on this battlefield, given that it was central to the war they helped end.
Heh! So he planned all this from the start!
Thank you again, Wuk Evu. We wouldn't have found these leaves without your help.
It was my honor to render assistance.
And, with apologies to present company, allow me to offer my encouragement as well, Third Promise. Ever since I witnessed your performance in the Feat of Reeds, I have been certain that you are the claimant most worthy of leading our nation.
All devised solutions to the Hanuhanu's ailing crops, but you alone sought to know their culture and revive Ihih'hana, even if it seemed unrelated to your task.
In my humble opinion, no one cares more for the people of Tuliyollal and what they hold dear.
Should you again require the historical musings of an old shipwright, I am ever at your service.
For now, I take my leave.
I cannot argue with that...
...We have what we need. Let us return to Iq Br'aax.
You have to wonder whether Wuk Evu is actually a historian and not a shipwright.
I'm glad we were successful. The others should be back soon, I expect.
I hope so─I'm famished!
You have to wonder whether Wuk Evu is actually a historian and not a shipwright.
I'm glad we were successful. The others should be back soon, I expect.
How did everyone fare?
We got the najool leaves! Wuk Evu came along and helped us find them!
Wuk Evu was here? I would have liked to say hello.
Yes, he gave us an important history lesson...
That Gulool Ja Ja brought an end to centuries of warfare surprises me little─but to achieve said peace through cuisine is something else entirely.
Leave it to my old man to find the oddest of solutions. But how about the rest of you? Is our kitchen ready?
Everything should be in order. Urianger and I made another tour of the village and borrowed the cooking utensils we need─with no mention of what we needed them for, of course.
And I am pleased to report that we are stocked with the finest firewood this forest had on offer.
Spoken like a true expert.
Erenville and I found our ibruq, so we should have meat aplenty.
It was a spirited creature. So much so that its hunter fell down a cenote trying to catch it...
What part of “never speak of this to anyone” did you not understand!?
I picked a good portion of local herbs, with particular attention to the seeds that yield achiote. I'm told our resident astrologian divined the appropriate measurements for the seasoning as well.
Aye. Through further inquiry did I determine the ideal balance of spices.
Then all that remains is to prepare the dish itself. I presume that at least one among us is versed in the culinary arts?
I can hardly claim profound skill, but I have cooked for myself. You can leave the rest to me.
And you, I hope. I could use your adventurer's grit when it comes to skinning the ibruq.
And you, I hope. As I recall, you are an accomplished culinarian.
Oooh, my mouth is watering already!
Without further delay, then!
Oh, it smells so good!
Good, there is still time. I shall prepare our sample at once.
At first I wasn't sure about being stuck with the one-head, but better that than playing nanny to the mewling house cat.
Be quiet, Bakool Ja Ja. No one cares what you think.
Hmph. Act tough all you like. Victory will be ours.
It's ready!
Apologies for the wait. We submit to you our xibruq pibil.
This looks amazing!
The dish is prepared by using the culinary techniques of the Mamool Ja to cook the spiced meats favored by the Xbr'aal.
It is a symbol of peace between their two peoples after centuries of war.
Both the ingredients and your methods appear to have been correct. Now then...
In taste, texture, and aroma, you have recreated xibruq pibil admirably.
Granted, anyone might well achieve similar results by following the recipe to the letter.
But you went a step further. You sought to learn the cultural significance of the dish─about Yak T'el's history of violence and your father's role in ending it.
Your willingness to take lessons from the past befits aspiring Dawnservants, and for that I commend you.
All that remains is to partake of your creation. True understanding is gained only through experience.
Now this is something I'm definitely good at!
Ahem. I believe we have yet to receive our assessment.
Ours is also a faithful example of xibruq pibil, as you will no doubt agree.
I see...
While your effort looks the part, unlike the Second and Third Promises' dish, it lacks its defining aroma.
P-P-Preposterous!
The meat was marinated in spice before being steamed in an earthen oven! This is xibruq pibil!
Oh? And what about the Ja Tiika banana leaf?
It's because of you that we couldn't get any damned leaves! You can't fault us!
But the Second and Third Promises had no such difficulty, did they? That which they needed they acquired simply by showing interest in our history and heritage.
It's just some crusty old leaf! What difference could it make!?
Your dish lacks an essential ingredient. As you have failed to demonstrate an adequate understanding of xibruq pibil, I must deem your performance unsatisfactory. Your team will not receive keystones.
Hmph. This was stupid anyway.
His ambition only grows more intense. That someone could harbor such dark thoughts towards family...
What do I care for this sham of a feat? I can always take what I need later!
This is delicious!
The ibruq is so tender, it melts in your mouth! And the way the najool leaf rounds out these spices is sublime!
This is the taste of harmony. Someone who only knows brute force and deception could never appreciate it.
Choke on your harmony.
Come, come, finish your meal. That too is part of the feat.
You don't have to tell me twice!
Ah... That was bliss...
It was palatable enough, I suppose.
To you who have successfully performed the Feat of Repast, I present these keystones.
Only one feat left...
Well, I should get going, then.
I'm glad that I...uh, wasn't paired with one of the others.
We can do better than that, surely.
The sixth keystone is ours! Thanks for all your help, everyone.
I forgot something important!
Um...was there any xibruq pibil left? I could really use another helping...
That was a delicious sample of xibruq pibil. I have high hopes for you all.
I'm relieved that our dish was well received.
Depriving the First Promise of a keystone is a crucial victory indeed.
We need to start considering how to reclaim that keystone from Bakool Ja Ja...
One final feat remains. After this one, I hardly know what to expect.
That was sooo good! I'm already looking forward to having xibruq pibil again.
Here, Forename. Krile made more using leftover ingredients. You'll love it!
I'm thinking to buy more for the road, myself. Now that the Feat of Repast is over, the villagers should be free to offer it to us, right?
Feat of the Brotherhood, here we come!
Seeing as we now face the penultimate objective of the rite, it would be wise to travel to Mamook and undertake the Feat of the Brotherhood without delay.
Wise, yes, but impossible. The Ty'iinbek Traverse, which connects the upper forest to the Ja Tiika Heartland, is still impassable.
Is there no other route?
I'm afraid not. Work to clear the path is underway, though, so I'm hopeful we can resume our journey soon.
Then let us each use this time as we see fit.
I, for one, would like to explore the village's surrounds─if Erenville would oblige me with a tour?
Very well. I have no other engagements.
Then I will come with you─if only to prove that I am capable of keeping my footing.
Though I shouldn't rejoice in our delay, it does afford me an opportunity to look into my grandfather's purported visit to Yak T'el.
Oh, that's right! Mablu did say something about a foreign mage coming through here decades back, didn't she? I'll come with you!
Want to join us, Forename?
Let us reconvene here after our respective diversions.
As I recall, the merchant met my grandfather at a market in Yak T'el some twenty years ago.
Any who might reliably remember him must therefore be at least middle-aged. Let us make inquiries where we can.
I hope someone in Iq Br'aax knows something...
This fellow looks promising! Definitely older than I am.
