They brought you into this world over a mistake I made...And I'll be damned if I let you taunt me with it!
I'll cut us a path. Stand ready!
You cannot flee my radiance.You will all be my dreamers.
We'll lock her down as best we can.The rest of you need to run!
Quickly now, while the primal is─...Lyse!?
I can't. I can't run away from this.They need us!
...Then we stand and fight together.Alphinaud, the envoys are in your care!
Surely you do not mean to... Very well.I shall see our guests to safety.
All of you, to me!
Why are you two staying!?She still has more than enough strength to addle you both!
You need more than three to best a primal!And if we let you fall here, then who'll be left to stop her?
Pitiful, misssguided children.Lay down your weapons, lay down your heads...
Wha─ I can't move!She's going after Lyse and Raubahn!
My thanks, Forename!I'll make sure my steel is worth the effort!
Again and again you refuse my gift...
Do not your sssouls weigh heavy?
She's building up to something big!Come close to me, all of you!
Nice work, Fordola!...Are you all right, though?
<huff> This... <gasp> ...This is nothing!
Ugh, it's one thing after another...We have to fight as one!
Why do you cling to your misery?
She's starting to weaken!Don't give up!
Behold...my divine brilliance!
What in the─? Her power's out of control!I'll shield us, but you'll have to finish her off!
...Quickly! I can't hold her off forever!
...Kill her! <gasp> You need to kill her now!
Hold on, Fordola...We end this now! For Ala Mhigo!
We...we did it! We beat her!
...What is this?
...I'm only going to say this once.
The Ananta just summoned their primal in the throne room. My friends are fighting her, but they need help.
They need someone with the Echo, and by the gods, I wish I had it. But I don't.
I told you before that you still had time, but things have changed. I need your answer now.
You can end it like Zenos...or you can fight for Ala Mhigo. Your choice.
Seven hells... It's her...the Butcher!
It's done. Take me back to my cell.
You are not forgiven.
Not you. You I will never forgive.
But I will thank you.
For standing against a primal and saving us from servitude─you have my thanks.
Well fought, Forename. Arenvald. That was a near thing.
Aye, our stand against the Qalyana would have been brief indeed had you not volunteered for guard duty.
We'd be enthralled as surely as our sentries were. They must have planned this far in advance...
Security was my responsibility, and I know how dangerous primals can be. I should have─ Gah! It's my fault. My stupid mistake.
Nay, lass, we were all caught unawares. We will take this as a lesson, and watch our own more carefully in future.
You can be sure that the lackeys who smuggled the crystals into the throne room weren't the only thralls in our ranks. The soldier who first spoke up in favor of the Qalyana keeping their weapons springs to mind...
A primal's servant is betrayed by his aura. If you mean to conduct an investigation, I can identify any others acting under Sri Lakshmi's influence.
Thanks, Y'shtola. We'd appreciate the help.
Speaking of help, I almost fell over when Fordola turned up. What was she even doing there?
I asked her to come...
Well, that explains it, then.
It's sad, but Raganfrid was right: her victims will never forgive her for what she's done.
But I don't think Fordola picked up that sword looking for forgiveness. She just...she wanted to fight for her country.
If you say the world in which Fordola grew up is partly to blame for what she became, then as an Ala Mhigan, I feel responsible for improving that world.
We can't ignore what's happening right now─we have to show people a better way than vengeance, or we risk giving birth to a new generation of Skulls...
I know it's idealistic, but I want to help people to let go of their old grievances and make peace with each other. And I'll hold a thousand meetings and talk till I'm blue in the face if that's what it takes.
'Tis a long and arduous path you have chosen, but one well worth walking. Rest assured that I will do what I can to help you reach your destination.
Thank you, Alphinaud. The first step will be to get our representatives back in the throne room. They're a little shaken, but not one of them seemed ready to run. We're all determined to finish what we started.
I will see that you're not interrupted. Forename─you and the Scions are to stand down. Get some rest. You've earned it.
A fine spot to contemplate the heavens...
The meeting is over. The envoys have chosen to instate a government modeled on Ishgard's House of Commons─a ruling body of representatives elected by the people.
'Tis a fair decision, and one which signals the end of my part in all this. But I would gaze upon Gyr Abania's stars one last time before I leave...
Forget something?
Your Grace!? I─ There was no word...
Raubahn Aldynn. You are hereby dismissed as General of the Immortal Flames, and relieved of your seat on the Syndicate.
But, Your Grace...
Raubahn, I am no longer a child.
Stay here, in your homeland. Work with your brethren. Rebuild Ala Mhigo!
You desire to stand alone─I understand. But remember what happened...
I remember full well the consequences of my naivety! And thus did I consult at length with a most trusted advisor ere I embarked upon this course!
A most trusted advisor!? And what of me? Am I no longer deserving of your confidence?
What trust can there be between us when you withhold the truth from me!?
Did you think me oblivious to the anguish in your eyes when you spoke of returning to Ul'dah!?
For years and years, we have trusted one another, yet now you refuse to confess your heart's desire!?
I swore an oath to you that day on the sands. I pledged my sword─
And it has served me well. But in Pipin you have forged a new sword, as sharp and deadly as the blade you bequeathed him.
I will show you a sultana who can wield every weapon at her disposal─including Lolorito and his Monetarist cronies!
So follow your heart...please. You are home. You are free.
Nanamo, I...
Smile for me, Raubahn. I would have this parting be a joyous one.
Thank you, Your Grace. It has been an honor to serve you and Ul'dah.
Tomorrow you will serve Ala Mhigo, and fight for the good of all Eorzea. Am I understood?
Yes, Your Grace...
Thanks for shielding us from Lakshmi, you two. If you hadn't been there, the rest of us would be worshipping her by now.
You're kind to include me, Lyse, but we both know who did most of the work. I could scarce keep track of the battle, let alone land a telling blow.
No shame in admitting it. The Warrior of Light has put far better men than me in the shade.
Ahem. Did I mention that I encountered the sultana in the palace? It would seem Her Grace has come to Gyr Abania to oversee the final stages of her relocation project.
She was in search of General Aldynn, and I directed her to the rooftop garden. I do hope he was still there...
Are you in the habit of gossiping about the affairs of royalty, Master Leveilleur?
Certainly not, Your Grace! I was merely informing my companions─
Be at ease, Alphinaud. 'Twas only a jest.
But I must yield the floor to Raubahn. He has an important announcement to make.
As of yesternight, I have been relieved of my post in the Immortal Flames and the Syndicate both...
...I shall be assuming my father's duties. And may I say that Tizona has never felt heavier upon my back.
'Twould seem I am in need of employment. Mayhap one of my old acquaintances can introduce me to a mercenary company or some such...
You may be getting on in years, Father, but you'd struggle to find a band of sellswords who wouldn't snap your hand off─your...remaining hand.
Yes, the Bull of Ala Mhigo need not be put out to pasture just yet...
Your Grace has developed a wicked edge to her humor. And you, Pipin, would do well not to laugh when the future may hold the same for you!
So...does this mean you're staying?
Aye. That seems to be the way of it. I would be glad to aid you in rebuilding our nation. If you'll have me.
"If,“ he says! Welcome home, Raubahn.
Well, that was unexpected...though you seem distinctly unsurprised.
Either you are more astute than I give you credit for...or I am losing my touch.
In any event, one thing is certain: Ala Mhigo will rejoice at the homecoming of her dearest son.
I think it's about time I headed back to Rhalgr's Reach. What's next for all of you?
Alisaie will be eager to hear of recent events, so I shall join you, if you've no objections.
I'd welcome the company! Forename, why don't you come along to the Reach as well once you've said your farewells to Nanamo and the others.
Well, here we are again!
Alphinaud has regaled me with a thrilling tale of hidden treasure troves, mid-meeting betrayals, unlikely alliances, and joyous homecomings. It would seem I missed...everything.
I was patrolling the palace grounds with Thancred and Y'shtola when we heard the report of a primal in the throne room. I honestly doubted my own ears.
As others have said, we were lucky to have our Echo-blessed champions nearby this time, but we'll need to keep a closer eye on the Qalyana...
You can say that again. This whole episode has reminded me just how far apart our kinds still are. It looks like centuries of fear and mistrust really can't be washed away in a day. But someone has to make an effort at reconciliation if these conflicts are ever going to end.
Naturally, a lot of people are crying out for vengeance, but I've been doing my best to calm things down. Violent reprisals will only lead to more summonings.
Indeed. Violence will ever beget violence─as the Empire has learned to its cost in recent times.
In any case, summoning Lakshmi was the broodmother's doing, and whoever replaces her might not be so keen on the idea. We'll just have to watch and wait.
Which isn't to say we won't be putting the safety of our allies in the Vira and M tribes first. I plan to have Resistance scouts keep track of the Qalyana's movements at all times.
My parents will be relieved to hear that. What are your plans for the rest of the Resistance army, out of interest? Are we to prepare for imperial counterattacks?
That would be a question for the Resistance's newest recruit─a military commander with far more experience than me!
What? The Bull of Ala Mhigo!?
We call it an army, but the Resistance is really a collection of smaller, independent groups. And when Conrad passed his command on to me, that authority only extended to the freedom fighters based in Rhalgr's Reach.
He just happened to be serving as the Resistance spokesman at the time, and needed someone to take over the role while everything was in disarray. But that time has passed.
When I speak with the other leaders about reforming the army under the new government, I'll be nominating Raubahn as the overall commander of our forces. He has more experience than the rest of us put together, and we stand to learn a lot from him.
Indeed. He is in all respects the ideal choice. Assuming he accepts the post, Ala Mhigo will have added a formidable weapon to its arsenal.
And given the progress of Nanamo's resettlement initiative, I see great cause for hope. The seeds which we so carefully sowed have begun to quicken, my friends.
I like that. We tend to our promises, and watch as Ala Mhigo blooms.
I do give thanks to the kami that my makeshift raft withstood the fury of the seas...
But there their generosity ended. Without coins in our pockets for new attire, we are doomed to look like so much jetsam. O, woe betide the poor man in a city of rich merchants...
These dango are delicious! Will you have one?
Hm!? More sweetbreads!? I surrendered my blade to secure what few coins we have!
Bah! 'Tis like talking to a child...
Why fate saddled me with this burden I shall never know...but I am alive, and I must return to my master's side!
Come, Tsuyu. We shall find a ship to carry us across the Ruby Sea!
Come, Tsuyu. We shall find a ship to carry us across the Ruby Sea!
Have you read the reports? First Doma, then Ala Mhigo─and Lord Zenos put to the sword!
Do not believe everything you read. I hear the viceroy was merely wounded, and that he has already returned to the capital. Naturally, the savages beat their chests, and boast loudly of taking his head, regardless.
Nay... Lord Zenos lives?
Deplorable. That our own officers should be fooled by Eorzean misinformation...
Small wonder the provinces have begun rising up in rebellion. We must prepare an official, and above all accurate announcement to quell these pernicious rumors.
They would wage war with empty words...Let them produce the viceroy's remains, then! We shall soon put the lie to their claims.
Forename! Great timing! I was just about to send word to the Scions. I've got lots to tell you!
The council has officially recognized the Resistance as our standing army. And I expect you can guess who's been appointed commander. Suffice it to say, we're in good hand!
Having the Bull of Ala Mhigo at the helm's done wonders for morale. People were dancing in the streets when the announcement was made. And we have you and the sultana to thank for it. If you two hadn't worked your magic, he'd never have contemplated following his heart.
The council has also decreed that we're to maintain a presence at Rhalgr's Reach. Lyse will continue to lead our forces in the Fringes─a job she's been doing tirelessly. A bit too tirelessly, some might say. We're constantly having to remind her to rest before she falls over.
That's an exaggeration─and I always get up again. Anyway, we can hardly afford to lower our guard now. Not after our latest brush with Lakshmi. Speaking of which, we've been keeping a close eye on the Qalyana, and it looks like they've chosen a new leader.
It's, um...Shanti's daughter. You know, the half-dead one. For whatever reason, the Qalyana thought she was the best candidate. Which makes them leaderless, basically.
As things stand, there's no prospect of engaging in talks, let alone coming to an understanding.
But I won't let that stop me. I'll keep on reaching out to them until they finally see sense.
Just like I've been reaching out to Fordola. She still won't meet my gaze, but she's given up trying to ignore me. It may only be the odd grunt, but at least she's responding. I'll get through to her yet.
Forename, there you are!
Alphinaud, Alisaie! Is everything all right?
We've received word from Tataru. Hancock has apparently acquired information of great interest and urgency. More than that she didn't say─only that we should come to Kugane right away.
I had a mind for the two of us to set forth together, but Alisaie is determined to make it a party of three.
As I've told you more than a dozen times, Brother, my wounds are quite healed, and I would benefit from some fresh air. Besides, you may well need an extra pair of hands.
Worry not, Sister, I have quite given up trying to convince you.
Whether we be two or three, we should depart as soon as possible. You will be joining us, I trust?
Huh. I was about to say I'd come too, but I'll just have to settle for cheering you on from afar. Good luck with...whatever it turns out to be!
Thank you, Lyse. Rest assured, should this business prove to be of even tangential concern to Ala Mhigo, we shall inform you without delay.
Let us be off, then. Hancock and Tataru await us at the Ruby Bazaar offices.
Greetings, honored madam. May I show you in?
My friends! Thank you for coming at such short notice!
We were told the matter was urgent. I take it Yugiri and Soroban are also involved?
Ah, my presence here is but a happy coincidence. I am come on separate business─which can wait.
My apologies.
Master Hancock─pray tell our friends exactly what you told me.
Of course, of course.
Some few days ago, a large detachment of soldiers was seen arriving at the Garlean embassy. This seemed to me most unusual, as no personages of note are due to visit for a matter of months.
So I made a few inquiries, whereupon I learned of a most curious rumor.
Apparently, the soldiers were dispatched to Kugane to investigate recent sightings of a certain individual.
The late acting imperial viceroy of Doma─Yotsuyu!
I beg your pardon!?
I, too, am loath to believe it. I saw the keep come down on top of her.
We all did.
I would not presume to question your eyewitness accounts, nor am I one to take rumors at face value. The fact is, the Garleans have no knowledge of what took place at Doma Castle─they may well be chasing after a woman who merely resembles Yotsuyu.
But a woman who resembles Yotsuyu in the company of a grizzled Roegadyn samurai? I daresay that thickens the plot.
...Gosetsu? He's alive!?
While I've no conclusive proof, I thought that such a possibility warranted your attention.
Have you informed Lord Hien?
Well, I think we'd all like to believe the old bear survived.
Indeed. While I dare not give myself wholly to hope, I will not deny that I have prayed for such a miracle ever since that fateful day.
But regardless of my personal feelings, if the Empire has seen fit to pursue these rumors so vigorously, we can scarce afford to ignore them.
I am bound by duty to ascertain the truth of the matter. Will you join me in this quest?
Thank you. If Gosetsu yet lives, he will need our help if he is to avoid capture.
I understand. Only too well. But if Gosetsu yet lives, he will need our help if he is to avoid capture.
Gosetsu is a dear friend, and we cannot abandon him to the mercy of the Empire. Our course is clear.
Hancock, is there aught else you can tell us?
Alas not─but I have taken the liberty of employing one of the finest informants money can buy. You shall have the latest intelligence on the Garleans' movements and more besides.
The informant awaits your pleasure in the back streets of Sanjo Hanamachi. From its shining facade to its dark underbelly, few know Kugane as intimately as he.
“One of the finest informants money can buy”... Why do I have a bad feeling about this?
Permit me to assist you in your quest, my friends. The sooner your business is concluded, the sooner we may speak of mine!
Should your search take you away from Kugane, my boat is at your disposal. I shall see that she is ready to sail.
I'll give Soroban a hand. If he's providing us a ship, the least we can do is supply the provisions. We'll be at the pier if you need us.
A welcome offer and an excellent plan. Without further ado, then, let us seek out this informant in Sanjo Hanamachi.
This should be the place. Now we wait and see who comes.
I-It has been a while, my friends. Yes, yes, a long while indeed.
<sigh> I knew it.
Gyodo─any funny business, and you know what will happen, I trust?
No, no! No funny business! Only loyal service and the finest-quality information! O-Of course...such quality does not come cheap...
...No. But then Hancock already paid you. Honestly, you must think we were born yesterday. I've half a mind to call Lyse.
No, no! No Lyse, I beg you! No boots! I will tell you everything I know─free of charge!
The Empire searches for Yotsuyu. High and low, far and wide. Come to enlist my help, they did, promising rich rewards for decisive information.
And have you decisive information? Were the two individuals sighted here indeed Gosetsu and Yotsuyu?
Alas, see them with my own eyes, I did not. But the imperials are confident. Yes, yes, very confident indeed. Look at the size of their contingent!
But here is something they do not know... A rumor which you will find most interesting, I think. They say an elderly Roegadyn samurai appeared on Kogane Dori with a beauteous maiden, and sold his katana to a pawnbroker. 'Twas no common katana either, but one of surpassing craftsmanship.
Well, that is interesting─assuming it's true. Did you corroborate the rumor with the pawnbroker in question?
Ah, er...no. Regrettably, I do not have a working relationship with the master of Shofuku Shichiten...
Now why would that be, I wonder. If I didn't know better, I'd think he'd lent you money...
Ahem! H-He will help you, I am certain! While you speak with him, I will make contact with my Garlean connections and learn what I can of their progress.
A glimpse of the blade is all I need to be sure. But is it wise to let the Namazu out of our sight?
No other choice but this! And a fine choice it is! Though I am adept at gathering information, it is so much more efficient to share the work!
No, no! No more betrayals! No more boots! To divide our forces is simply more efficient!
D-Do not glare at me so, I beg you. To divide our forces is simply more efficient!
He's right. Given the urgency, we would do well to split up.And so I will go with our friend here. Nothing improves efficiency like a little supervision.
You─ But─ Er...yes. Yes, yes. We will go together. And there will be no boots!
Let's be about it, then. Good luck with the katana. Shall we reconvene at the pier later on? Fragrant as the Ruby Bazaar offices are, I prefer the fresh air.
Everything in order? Then let us proceed to Kogane Dori and find the master of Shofuku Shichiten.
