Feo Ul
Feo Ul
So! My sapling has finally remembered about her lovely branch!
But with such a half-hearted call, she may as well lop me off and cast me aside! Hmph, I have no sapling!
Please, Feo Ul, I need you
Hmph, is that your idea of a fervent call? A sodden log could do it with more fire!
O loveliest of branches, please grant me your succor!
Grrr...unnngh... You...you!
You're late! Late, late, late!
I've been waiting for you to summon me ever since you came here! Waiting and waiting and waiting!
But my sapling didn't so much as utter my name! Such a heartless thing she is! Cold and cruel and heartless!
Another self-important little brat. Just what we need.
Hmm. Reminds me of my childhood.
All right, I'm sorry! It was a joke! Honestly, just a joke!
But just now, you called for me so earnestly, so fervently... I couldn't possibly stay angry at you.
Very well! As your lovely branch, I will lend you my strength!
Well well well! If it isn't Feo Ul, the [Madbloom]! It's been too, too long!
Not long enough for you to think of any new games, though, apparently! If I were you, I'd be bored of myself.
Now, let me make something clear: that mortal is mine! No matter what you do, she will never be yours. Never, never, ever!
Awww, not even a bit? But...what about the others? Surely we can keep them?
No, no, no! You can't keep them either! They're for my amusement, and mine alone!
And if you lay so much as a finger on my sapling, I'll scatter the contents of her bag all over your precious village!
There'll be cold, hard metal! Furry, festering food! Stinky, sweaty smallclothes! And...and all manner of other terrible, unmentionable things! How would you like that, hmm!?
All right, all right... But will you not at least let us play with the twins? Just while the others go and see Urianger?
Aye, aye, that's all we ask! And we promise we'll play nicely.
...It seems we won't be joining you.
Aye, haha! We'll reveal the hidden [truth] to you at once!
So this is the true Il Mheg...
How are you feeling?
Better. I think I remember the way now.
Apologies for the delay. Shall we go and see Urianger?
Your lovely branch is useful, yes? So whenever you're in trouble, you must remember to make use of me!
For Alphinaud and Alisaie's sakes, let us be quick. It would be a shame to return only to find that they had been made to play one game too many.
Now, the place we seek is the abandoned manor of a nobleman and scholar. The Bookman's Shelves, it's called, after the fellow's vast collection of tomes. An agreeable habitat for our friend, I'm sure you'll agree.
If we follow the path north, we should soon find the place. Come along.
And here we are at long last. I give you Urianger's humble abode.
Come, let's see if he's home.
Urianger! Are you in?
Unto a world weary of heroes, a hero wends her way...
The Exarch did send word that thou wouldst seek me out, but ne'er did I imagine thou wouldst arrive so soon...
Full glad am I to see thee once more, my friend, and none the worse for thy travails.
Run along, Minfilia. We will meet you outside.
But...
Another one for you to imbue, if you'd be so kind.
I take it thou hast met with our other comrades already?
Hmm. That Master Alphinaud and Mistress Alisaie now travel in thy company is of great comfort to me. As for the rest...
It beginneth in earnest... The hunting of the Lightwardens, and perforce the war with Eulmore.
Hark thee, then, to my words, and through them behold the vision that I did glimpse─that of the Eighth Umbral Calamity.
As I drifted hither to the First, traversing the boundary 'twixt reality and potentiality, I did bear witness to events yet to come...
There I saw the combined forces of Eorzea and the Far East offering fierce resistance to the legions of Garlemald.
So fierce, in fact, that they did begin to push the enemy back. Ilm by painful ilm, at first, then yalm by yalm, and malm by malm in time.
Yet the joy they felt was short-lived, for in so doing, they did force the Empire's hand. Faced with defeat, the Garleans turned to a weapon most vile─Black Rose.
Its potency defied all reckoning.
Once released, the gas took on a life of its own, wreaking untold carnage not only in Eorzea, but in the provinces of the Empire besides.
From fighters upon the front lines to babes in their beds, none were spared. And as the casualties became too numerous to count, so did the fabric of civilization begin to unravel.
Nor did the land itself escape unscathed. For spreading from the site of its release, Black Rose brought death to the very soil.
To survive amidst the chaos and upheaval, men came to live by the sword, the rule of law giving way, inevitably, to the rule of might.
Thus was the spark struck and the fire kindled, and swiftly did it spread, as a blaze in a field of straw, to engulf every corner of the world.
Nations worthy of the name did then cease to exist. And those souls brave and true, who might have risen to restore order...
...were no more. For the weapon spared not one. Not even thee.
An endless age of war, begotten by the blight of Black Rose... Such is the legacy of the Eighth Umbral Calamity which I did behold.
No matter the cost, we must forestall this tragedy.
To that end, I have labored during my sojourn in this world, discovering in so doing the answer to a pressing mystery.
That of Black Rose's inexplicable potency.
Come.
Dost thou recognize yonder chart?
Indeed. 'Tis a rendering of the elemental wheel, such as one might find in classrooms across the Source.
As the chart maketh plain, our world is composed of six elements, in addition to which there exist two poles in fundamental opposition.
Astral, the active; umbral, the passive.
As a reflection of the Source, the First naturally compriseth the selfsame forces, yet curiously, there is a notable divergence in their nomenclature. To be specific, the denizens of this world employ not the terms astral and umbral.
Thus was I moved to inquire what names said forces had been assigned. A simple question which yielded a most unexpected answer...
Upon demanding the name of the pole aligned with activity and growth, I was told that as life's myriad colors combine to produce black, the people of the First had called it “Darkness.” At this did my mind begin to race.
Yet 'twas only when I asked what name had been given to the pole aligned with passivity that mine eyes were opened to the truth. Peace and tranquility being as purest white unmarred by color, I was told, it had been given the name of “Light.”
That's umbral light and astral darkness, yes? ...I'm no aetherologist, but it strikes me that the nomenclature of the First is rooted in the generation of the two forces, while our own appears to focus on their effects. Which makes one wonder...have we had it backwards all this time?
'Tis indeed a compelling question, and one which beareth closer examination. Yet what knowledge we already possess sufficeth to explain the chain of events.
The phenomenon of aetheric thinning observed in the Source is the consequence of Light─the power of stasis─flowing in from the First to stifle the movement of aether within the land.
And according to Master Alphinaud, Black Rose slayeth by halting the circulation of aether within living beings.
Should such a weapon be unleashed even as the First were rejoined, replete as it is with Light...
...We would have a disaster of untold proportions on our hands. A calamity.
Well...at least we have a better grasp of what we're facing. Our objective, however, remains unchanged.
We are to eliminate the Lightwarden of Il Mheg.
Speaking of which, were you able to ascertain its whereabouts?
Aye. 'Tis all but certainly ensconced within Lyhe Ghiah, the castle which standeth in the midst of the lake.
To enter said stronghold, we must needs turn to the pixies for aid. Fortunately, I have become quite adept at courting their cooperation.
Henceforth shall I accompany you, and do all in my power to ensure that my vision doth not come to pass.
My friend. Ere I speak of the task at hand, there is a question I would pose to thee.
What thinkest thou...of mine appearance?
Indeed. Though the night be lost, behind the shroud of blinding light, doubt not but that the stars shine still.
I have chosen to avail myself of their guidance, that I might navigate the sea of uncertainty that stretcheth before us. For a blessing, my prior studies of astrology did provide me with adequate grounding in the art.
Did I...lose weight? If 'tis of flesh thou speakest, I cannot rightly say. However, in taking up astrology, I may have shed with some yalms of fabric. My present attire better suiteth the art.
Though the night be lost, behind the shroud of blinding light, doubt not but that the stars shine still. I have chosen to avail myself of their guidance, that I might navigate the sea of uncertainty that stretcheth before us.
Come now, 'tis scarce the first time thou hast beheld these fair features. Lest thou wonderest, I have taken up astrology. My present attire better suiteth the art.
Though the night be lost, behind the shroud of blinding light, doubt not but that the stars shine still. I have chosen to avail myself of their guidance, that I might navigate the sea of uncertainty that stretcheth before us.
But enough of myself. Let us now speak of our task.
As I did mention, if we are to enter Lyhe Ghiah, we must needs gain the pixies' cooperation.
This is a simple matter of presenting unto them a suitable gift.
I shall procure a selection of viands that shall please their palates. Thancred, pray assist me in this endeavor.
Meanwhile, Forename, I bid thee obtain that which will please their eyes. In these parts, there abideth a vilekin known for its beauteous wings: the hawker. I shall lend thee a receptacle within which thou mayest capture a weakened specimen.
Thou art returned. Wert thou able to capture a hawker?
Ah, a truly magnificent set of wings. I shall treat them at once to make fast their vibrant colors.
Thancred too should return anon, upon which I shall ready all the items for presentation. Pray take thine ease meanwhile.
'Tis done. The pixies shall be well pleased with these gifts.
Ah, lest I forget...
White auracite, newly forged for thy use.
Our mission being to thwart a Rejoining, we will most assuredly cross paths with those who crave the contrary. Our eternal enemies.
Thus did I choose to abide in this aether-rich land, the better to fashion a trap for the Ascians' essence.
May I come in now?
You may indeed─assuming you've finished.
I did as you asked.
That's my girl. Thank you.
I should probably explain. Though my body remained behind in the Source, its limitations saw fit to accompany me. Which is to say, I cannot manipulate aether.
I took up the gunblade for its defensive advantages, but on account of my little impairment, I cannot imbue the ammunition myself. Luckily for me, Minfilia has quite a talent for it.
Minfilia. Once we set forth, we are not like to return for some while. If thou wouldst choose tomes to take with thee, let it be now.
Really? May I?
Of course, my dear. Yet have care thou dost not add overmuch to thy burden, lest I incur Thancred's ire.
Hast thou spoken to her of thine encounter with the Minfilia of eld?
Well, I suppose now is as good a time as any.
As you know, I freed young Minfilia from captivity in Eulmore some three years past.
Not long after, the two of us journeyed to the south of Amh Araeng. To the edge of the Empty, where the Flood was halted.
'Twas there that she awakened. The Minfilia of old. My Minfilia...
Tell me, tell me! What must I do to bring you back!?
My dearest Thancred... As I am now, I am no different from an Ascian. This child is but a vessel.
One of many I have used, that I might spread word of Her enduring blessing and preserve the flame of hope.
In my name, each has died never having lived her own life.
I have taken enough from these children. I will take no more.
But what of your suffering? Your sacrifice!? This isn't fair!
I will not stand for it─I cannot! There must be something we can do. Tell me!
Should the day come when this child grows weary of fighting, and wishes to cast it all aside...
Then shall I take up her burden.
But should she wish instead to become the master of her own destiny...
Then shall I bequeath to her my all.
Imbued with the strength that I reserve for rebirth, she may come to wield my powers as her own.
And what of my wishes!? What of F'lhaminn's!? What of all the people who love and care for you and want nothing more than to see you again!?
It is not their decision to make.
It is hers. This child's. This Minfilia's.
You have ever watched over me, Thancred.
Now I ask that you do the same for her. Protect her. Teach her. Stand by her as you stood by me.
There is much and more she does not know. She needs a guide to show her the ways of the world, or she will never find her own path.
When the time comes, you will find me here. Until that day...
Minfilia, wait!
What...what happened?
...And then she was gone. Minfilia─the girl─claims to have no recollection of any of it.
I've told her many things─where we came from, what we fight for. But of that day, I have not spoken.
With the coming of another possessed of the blessing of Light, the First hath begun to rise up in defiance of its fate.
The question remaineth, however... Who shall take up the flame of hope which Minfilia hath borne for so long? Whether we will it or no, the choice must soon be made.
I'm sorry I took so long. It was so hard to choose. In the end, I settled on just the one.
That is well. Now, if all is in order, let us set forth for Lydha Lran.
We weren't expecting you all back so soon. We had scarcely begun playing with the twins...
That said, your gifts are truly wonderful! Let me tell you, the milk and honey and biscuits won't last a day, and the wings are the loveliest we've ever seen!
You've done us a great kindness, and it's fae custom to return the gesture. If you desire anything of us, you need but name it!
So, what is it that you desire? Rusty old coins like you mortals are wont to collect, perhaps?
We are resolved to vanquish the Lightwarden of this land. To that end, we desire entry to Lyhe Ghiah.
What a strange thing to wish for! You might as well ask for your death!
But if that is what you want, who are we to argue? Very well, I shall speak with the others.
You've clearly been busy, Urianger. Would you be so kind as to tell us what we've missed?
...So that was the purpose of the gifts.
Is there anything you can tell us about this Lightwarden?
Aye, my lady. By circumstances most tragic, the Lightwarden of this land...
...Is our king and ruler, Titania.
It was not always so, of course. Our king fought the first Lightwarden that threatened our home, you see. Fought it, and won.
But all the horrible light that came out went and corrupted them, turning them into a new Lightwarden.
Now, they're king only in name. Naught remains of the wise and just ruler that used to be. We had no choice but to seal them in the castle.
The magick for breaking the seal, we divided into four, and wove each into a different relic, to be kept apart until the time was right...
And this dress is one of them. It's been in our safekeeping for years and years, but we've decided to entrust it to you.
Are you sure?
Of course. Custom demands it.
Though you're most certainly going to your deaths, we thought we should at least let you try. That way, we get to watch what happens!
Of course, you can't break the seal unless you have the other relics too.
The shell crown is with the Fuath, the stone scepter is with the Nu Mou, and the crystal shoes are with the amaro.
Good luck finding them all!
The facts thus disclosed confirm mine own understanding. Our quest lieth now before us.
First, let us hie to the lake, there to claim the shell crown from the Fuath.
If we call to them before the Untouchable Gate, they will answer.
Hearken to me, O spirits of the water. We are come with an entreaty.
Not in a talkative mood, apparently.
I'm not exactly sure how the gate works...
But if the Fuath are water spirits, perhaps we should take our search into the lake.
O-Oh? I...I suppose a brief dip wouldn't hurt...
We all know Thancred swims like an eel, but what about you, Minfilia?
I can swim well enough. Thancred taught me.
Excellent.
What about you, Urianger? I'm not sure I've ever asked.
...Rather than swim, mayhap it would be more...expeditious to walk upon the surface by means of magic.
You too, Urianger!? That you should be a kindred spirit!
Worry not, my friend. I know some helpful tricks, and I should be more than happy to share them with you. Together, we shall conquer the waves!
