Thanks for finding Mama, mister!
Do you believe me now, Papa Gruff!? Sweet, sweet appreciation, and all courtesy of my special talent!
I can't help but notice they didn't offer you anything edible by way of thanks... For my part, I've already been rewarded with a tasty morsel.
That said, the gift of food is far from guaranteed... Indeed, perseverance is key. Which is why I find myself performing show after show. I suggest you approach this contest with the same tenacity, Philcox.
I'm afraid he's right. Constant effort is key. Luckily, I sensed another troubled soul while I was tracking down the girl's mother. I'd better see what I can do to help.
You know, I think I'm ready to go it alone now. Why don't you let our pumpkin-headed benefactor know? I'll come and find you when I'm done.
Well, I'm afraid my next performance calls. Until we meet again, adventurer.
Heh heh heh... The adventurer returns, and at the precise moment I predicted. I do hope keeping Philcox company wasn't too taxing. What of our fiend and his endeavors?
You have my thanks, truly. Ah, speak of the devils. Here they come.
Dear oh dear, that turned out to be a damn sight harder than I'd anticipated. And all I have to show for my travails is a single cookie. To think the first gift I'd receive would prove to be the last...
Curses! I didn't receive so much as a crumb! I suppose this means you win... <sigh> Very well, I am yours to command, Papa Gruff.
Heh heh... You admit defeat far too readily, Philcox.
Hooray! We found you! I wanted to thank you properly for helping me and Mama. I brought you a pumpkin cookie!
Simply...scrumptious!
Hehe, I'm glad you like it! Farewell!
That makes it one apiece. A draw, then... Still, Philcox─while you had some assistance along the way, you've nevertheless done yourself proud.
To think I'd live to see the day Papa Gruff sings my praises. Awfully kind of you to finally admit that I might have worth!
Hmph. Is that all you desire? My begrudging acceptance? Have you forgotten your reasons for joining in the festivities in the first place?
O-Of course I haven't! The good people of Gridania are still in need of my help! And where there are commonfolk in need, there are cookies to be freed...and err, given to me.
Adventurer, I had better get going. But before I do, let me say this. I might have found a way to make the most of my talents, but I wouldn't have been able to do so without you and the pumpkin-headed lady. I'm sure we'll run into each other again one of these days. Till then!
The promise I sensed in Philcox when he and I first met wasn't illusory after all. I should take my leave, too. 'Twould be remiss of me to allow him to garner all the glory...to say nothing of the cookies.
Heh heh... I'd say those two fiends ended up having themselves a frightfully fun-filled All Saints' Wake. Wouldn't you agree?
And for your part in this, a fitting reward. I present to you a set of finery, as worn by Gridania's most emotionally-perceptive ahriman.
Ah... Perhaps you wonder if your outfit is endowed with the same enchantment? You needn't worry. There never was an enchantment.
Heh heh heh... That little charade was my way of giving Philcox the confidence he so sorely lacked. Although, I daresay such a measure was unnecessary, given he had you to cheer him on.
Ah, before I forget, you are hereby cordially invited to my humble abode for a get together of sorts. Do drop by─I assure you it will be frightfully entertaining...
Anyway, your help is much appreciated. At this rate, my vision of an All Saints' Wake for mortals and voidsent alike might not be such a distant prospect. Though I do hope that these shenanigans haven't dulled your enthusiasm for this most occult of occasions...
As you can see, I'm having no trouble earning myself a cookie or two. Now, if you don't mind, I'm in the middle of a show. Do me a favor and go bother Philcox instead.
I've lost me coinpurse, you see...
Oh, it's you! I'm definitely starting to get the hang of this whole helping mortals lark─hells, I think I'm enjoying myself!
I better start workin' hard to put food on the table too...
Papa Gruff's the greatest clown around!
