You wouldn't keep a girl waiting, would you!?
Perish the thought!
So tell me, where in this marvel of a city might you lovely ladies be staying?
At this rate, grain will soon be more precious than gold.
A result of the uncommonly bad harvests, to be sure...
And we have you to thank for them, do we not?
Aye, this weakening of the aetheric flow must surely be linked to Dalamud's descent.
And, of course, to the primals.
A fine mess. But we must not lose hope.
Louisoix will know what to do. We need only trust in his judgment.
Truly a marvel of Sharlayan ingenuity... It's as if I could reach out and touch the aether.
Time to focus... No more gallivanting about like before. The Scions are counting on you.
Have faith. Just have faith. You can do this.
Hmmm... This disturbance is recent.
The Sultantree? Maybe Papashan will know something of it.
Looks like they gave you quite a thrashing. Can you walk?
It's me. I was too late. Our person of interest had already quit the scene. The General? Very well. I shall be there anon.
My colleagues went to great lengths to provide me with the means to detect aetheric disturbances, but every time I find one, you seem to be in the middle of it. I'm starting to wonder if it might not be simpler just to follow you around. Sadly, I have business elsewhere.
Tread softly, my friend. The carefully laid trap you dismantled was clearly sanctioned by Lord Lolorito. I heard the Blades mention him as they fled. Believe me when I tell you that he is not a man to be trifled with.
The sultana's enemies grow bolder by the day, and I suspect they have the support of outside forces.
Thank you. If you hadn't come along, those bastards would surely have slaughtered us all.
I would speak with you further, but it isn't safe for us to linger here.
Find me at the Coffer & Coffin later. Until then, stay safe.
I shall accompany Wystan and his men. They need protection─and I need more information.
Ah, but where are my manners? I have yet to properly introduce myself. I am Thancred, a humble scholar surveying the flow of aether in Thanalan.
It is an honor and a privilege to make your acquaintance. I hope when next we meet it is under more auspicious circumstances. Farewell!
...Ah. Wait a moment. It occurs to me that we may have...
Never mind. Fare thee well!
Twelve bless you, my friend. You risked your life to save ours.
Betrayed by my own guards... Gods, I was a fool to trust those men.
Lolorito owns the godsdamned Brass Blades. I should've questioned their motives from the start.
Even so, I could hardly have predicted that the wealthiest man in Ul'dah would want me dead for the heinous crime of seeking to change the law! I'm just a merchant, for gods' sakes!
That ruthless bastard! And what of that monstrosity? Those were his own men! It beggars belief!
Well, that's it. I'm finished. If I stay in Ul'dah any longer, I'm as good as dead.
My associates, my friends─gods, even the children may not be safe if I don't disappear. And you...godsdammit, if Lolorito learns of your involvement, you'll be next.
I'll speak with the others and make sure your part in this stays secret. Beyond that, I don't know what to suggest... Maybe you should seek the counsel of Mistress Momodi.
She's helped countless adventurers in her time. Mayhap she'll know what to do.
Go quickly now, my friend. Lolorito's spies may be watching.
Settle down, Forename. You've got nothin' to worry about. No one seems to know you were at the ruins.
Wystan, on the other hand, is now a pariah─about as welcome 'round here as a rabid wolf, poor bugger. Suffice to say, that boy risked the wrath of the wrong man.
Lord Lolorito: chairman of the East Aldenard Trading Company, generous contributor to the Order of Nald'thal, and member of the Syndicate.
Didn't get where he is by leavin' loose ends, that one.
Which is why he ain't above killin' his own men.
Hells, even if those Blades knew what was comin', it's not like they could refuse to do their benefactor's biddin'.
<sigh> Don't let this color your view of Ul'dah, Forename... It's true that there are some here who ain't afraid to crack a few skulls if it gets 'em what they want. But most of us are decent folk just tryin' to make ends meet.
You know, a lot of people would call you a damn fool for riskin' your life to save a marked man...
But I believe you did a good thing, Forename, and for that you have my respect.
Listen: you've been through a lot lately. Why don't you rest a spell?
I'll have the boys at the Hourglass set you up with a room, my treat. Just have a word with Otopa Pottopa whenever you feel like stayin'.
And when you've got your appetite for adventurin' back, consider takin' on a guildleve or two.
We've a lot of requests from locals lookin' to hire adventurers for various jobs. It'd be a good way for you to earn yourself some extra gil.
Eustace can tell you more about how the system works, so go and speak with him if you're interested.
Look what the coeurl dragged in. Good to see you, Forename. I'd ask what brings you, but I reckon we both know the answer to that already.
Well, have I ever let you down before? Wait, don't answer that...
So happens I know a fella by the name of Dadanen who needs a hand. He's a merchant by trade, sellin' precious stones to those in Ul'dah with the means to buy them.
He's asked that I send any lookin' for work his way. You can find him over in Horizon, if you fancy.
That's in western Thanalan, mind you. Just cross the bridge north of Scorpion Crossing and the road will take you there.
Knowin' the circles he deals in, might be he'll have some talk of the royal family that'll interest you, as well.
And why not make use of a chocobo porter for the journey to Horizon? If you've the gil for it, that is.
You'll find the chocobo stables just across the way from my Quicksand. Find Mimigun─he'll set you straight.
Well, off you go, then. I haven't got all day to be holdin' your bloody hand!
