Elder Seedseer, I thank you for granting me this audience.
I am Fourchenault Leveilleur, here in my capacity as representative of the Forum.
It is I who should thank you, Master Fourchenault, for journeying so far, and so swiftly. Would that our first meeting could have been under happier circumstances.
It has been too long, Father. You look well.
As do you both. Ameliance will be glad to hear that you are taking care of yourselves.
How is Mother?
She misses you terribly, of course, but is otherwise a picture of health.
Circumstances apart, I am grateful that our meeting has afforded me the chance to be reunited with my children at long last. And I believe I also owe you thanks for the hospitality you showed my father, Louisoix, during his sojourn in Eorzea.
All thanks we owe to him. In the days prior to the Seventh Umbral Calamity, it was your father's tireless efforts which granted us a means to vanquish the primals.
Were it not for him, our strength would have been quite spent by the time the Empire arrived. That Gridania still stands is in large part his achievement. He was a great man.
He would doubtless have been moved to hear you say so. I must confess, however, that I opposed his decision to intervene.
And my position remains unchanged.
“To chart the course of history, not to change it.” I am familiar with the Sharlayans' stance.
It is more than that. It is our way of life. Who we are.
But I came here not to deliver a lecture, but the Forum's answer to your request.
Sharlayan will under no circumstances intervene in the conflict between Eorzea and the Garlean Empire.
...May I ask for what reason the Forum has come to this decision? The Final Days spell the end not only for Eorzea, but the entire world.
The “Final Days”? Pray, spare me your hyperbole. This conflict is no more than the latest in a series of petty squabbles between yourselves and Garlemald. One in which Sharlayan will take no part. If the Final Days were truly upon us, we would know.
Father, you must ask the Forum to reconsider.
You may feel safe on your little island across the waves, but if you imagine the Telophoroi will leave you be, you are mistaken. They mean to kill us all, themselves included!
Alphinaud is right. We have seen what the enemy is capable of, the lengths to which they'll go. This is no time to turn a blind eye.
If Eorzea falls, so too will Sharlayan. So if you truly love our homeland, you will join us─now, before it's too late!
I thought you knew better than to raise your voice to your elders. It seems I was wrong. Wrong to ever let you leave Sharlayan. I consoled myself that your time abroad would instill in you some hint of restraint, of discipline.
But I see now that Eorzea has made fools of you both. Have you forgotten why it was that I so vehemently opposed your grandfather's departure?
For all his wisdom, his only solution was to go to war.
Death. Devastation. Ruin. Even those who claim victory are scarred for life. What prize could ever justify such sacrifice?
It is the duty of the learned to avert such tragedy. By fanning the flames of war, you forsake all you once held dear.
I see your friend shares your misguided ideals. But unlike her, you should know better.
By espousing such barbaric notions, you subvert the teachings of Sharlayan and place all we have worked for in jeopardy.
Alphinaud, Alisaie. As of this moment, you shall no longer bear the name of Leveilleur.
What!?
Father...
How you choose to live your lives is no longer my concern. If you wish to walk the path of ruin, I will not stand in your way.
Master Fourchenault! While Sharlayan may have no intention of intervening in this conflict, we can still part as friends. Will you not stay and speak with us, that we might learn of Sharlayan's hopes for the morrow?
I have said what I came here to say. Any further discussion would be meaningless.
Father, wait!
Don't bother, Alisaie!
How can you stand there and watch him walk away!? How can you let this happen!?
So that's what he came here to say!?
That we're all fools for having the temerity to defend ourselves against the Telophoroi!? And as for the rest─
Like it or not, this was the Forum's decision. To watch from afar while Eorzea burns.
Father was but the messenger. And as he handed down their judgment, I could think of nothing to say that could possibly sway him. I...still can't.
To have prolonged the discussion would have changed little, for it is not only Master Fourchenault who must be persuaded, but the Forum as a whole. Their decision was made ere your father crossed the sea.
Nor is it like to be changed. And so we shall face the Telophoroi without their aid.
Forgive me, but if they had no intention of helping us, then why would they go to the trouble of sending an envoy in the first place? Why did they not simply keep their counsel, as they are wont to do?
Forename─has Master Fourchenault arrived yet?
Then it is as I feared. My efforts were in vain.
I pleaded our case to as many Forum members as I could, but they flatly refused to discuss the matter. No─that's not exactly true. I should rather say that they ignored every word I said on the subject, without exception. It was almost unnerving.
Could it be that they are hiding something from us? That might go some way to explain Master Fourchenault's...performance.
When he said that they would know if the Final Days were truly upon us, I dismissed it as pride. But what if they genuinely believe that they know how the world will end, and simply disagree with us about the circumstances?
That I don't know...but something tells me they are not as unconcerned about the Telophoroi as they claim.
If the threat weren't real, why else would they be so standoffish and secretive?
I would very much like to delve deeper into this, but I'm afraid I've exhausted every avenue of inquiry.
Nor have I fared any better with my other mission, researching Hydaelyn and the aetherial sea. I tried enlisting the help of experts in the field, but it appears the Forum has forbidden anyone from cooperating with us.
Obstructed at every turn...
So it would seem, but don't lose heart just yet. With all the knowledge and acquaintances we have between us, we can still find a way forward.
To that end, I would like you all to join me here─when the time is right, of course. I am aware that matters in Eorzea stand on a knife-edge, but with your permission, I can at least start making the necessary arrangements.
And so you shall! Albeit under less-than-happy circumstances.
It may take a while to secure entry for you all, but I'll let you know when everything is in order. Look after yourselves in the meantime, won't you?
Excellent. Obviously, keeping the Telophoroi at bay must take precedence, but with luck, you'll be able to make the journey to Sharlayan ere long.
It may take a while to secure entry for you all, but I'll let you know when everything is in order. Look after yourselves in the meantime, won't you?
After which, assisting me will seem a sweet relief, I'm sure.
While you attend to matters heroical, I shall see about securing entry for you all, and will let you know when everything is in order. Take care in the meantime, won't you?
Your speculations give me cause to hope. Yet if these seeds will bear fruit, I cannot say. While it is possible the Sharlayans hide some secret truth from us, there can be no certainty that its exposure will prompt in them a change of heart. And so, for the present, we must needs confront the plight in which we find ourselves.
The Forum has refused our request for aid, and it falls to us alone to contend with the Telophoroi.
Even with all of Eorzea standing united, there is no guarantee that we will prevail.
What does Sharlayan intend to do if we fail?
While Sharlayan's stance is indeed disappointing, we cannot allow ourselves to be distracted from the challenge before us. There is much and more to be done.
I shall begin by sharing the Forum's response with my counterparts in the Alliance. Meanwhile, I would ask that the Scions─
