Ah, there you are, my sweet canary. Have you been crying again? Don't tell me your voice is still not on the mend...
Oh, generous sir, have mercy! I've done all I can, but even the apothecary said...
...So you've been suffering all this time?
I am sorry, my pet. I hadn't realized your affliction was this grave... But you needn't fret! I'll not reward your hours of trilling by casting you out into the street!
You are too kind, sir...
But what use am I if I cannot sing? I fear the day I become more burden to you than treasure...
Then I shall have a word with Lord Vauthry, and arrange for your ascension.
In that paradise where resides neither pain nor illness will your song ring out clearly once again.
...Or mayhap you think it a step too far?
No, I... You would do that for me!?
Of course. Why, I would almost wish to hasten my own ascension, knowing your blessed instrument was waiting there to greet me.
Ah, you must be a new arrival. Allow me to explain.
Ah, you must be a new arrival to harbor such doubts. Allow me to allay your suspicions...
As all know, the sin eaters exist to devour the sinful. But also do they serve to gather the souls of the innocent, and shepherd them unto celestial paradise.
It is through Lord Vauthry that we learned this truth. It is through Lord Vauthry's grace that the free people of Eulmore are destined to embrace salvation.
We are blessed to spend our days surrounded by love and merriment, until at last we are called to our final rapture. Even the bonded may find a place within that host, should their patrons deem them worthy.
Lord Vauthry truly is a great man, isn't he?
Now if you will excuse us, we must be on our way. May you find eternal salvation for the compassion you have shown my precious canary.
'Tis good to see you back. You were taking so long I began to worry something had happened.
I've begun sketching an outline for the portrait, but...nay, the Chais appear otherwise occupied. Will you share what your investigations have gleaned thus far?
So...Lord Vauthry boasts some manner of influence over the sin eaters, does he? That would explain the reverence in which he is held by the citizenry.
And as for this “ascension” business, I cannot help but be put in mind of that apothecary and his ominous remarks. If so many folk have entered the city over the years, then where do they go...?
Hmph. I take my eye off you for one moment and you're chattering away with that assistant of yours. Am I to assume the outline is done, then?
Wh-What in the blazes...!?
It's so...so...unflattering! Explain yourself, Alphinaud!
Where is your artistic interpretation!? It should evoke images of affluence and nobility, and overwhelm the viewer with its boundless beauty!
Lord Chai─you stated that this portrait was to commemorate your anniversary. Yours being a joyous union, it seemed to me that a realistic portrayal─
Realistic!? I don't want realism! I want perfection! A spectacle to slacken jaws and weaken knees! To make people cry out in amazement!
Now, fetch a blank canvas and─
Ah...ugh... Aaarrrggghhh!
I say... Did that come from above...?
Ladies and gentlemen, your attention pleeease: a tale to make you quiver and your noble blood freeze!
There was a villain on the loose, set to ruin our fair city...
...But our lord has got him now, and his fate will not be pretty!
Yes, the hammer of justice is poised to come crrrashing down! And one and all who'd watch it fall are invited to join his lordship in the Offer!
A malcontent? How dreadful...
And this man is to face sentencing...?
That's right. In fact...if you're curious, it might be worth you going along for the experience. The Offer they mentioned is part of the Emergent─the level above us where Lord Vauthry resides.
Ordinarily, you would be barred from entering, but it seems they'll be opening its doors for the next little while. The Crown Lift will take you up there.
...We had better not dawdle, then.
