Th-Thank you, the pain is better now. But I can't stop shaking...
Where did they come from? Why did they attack us? And why are those things still in the sky?
We had peace under Gulool Ja Ja! We were safe! But now...
I'm sorry I raised my voice. It's just...I don't know what to do...
You've finished aiding the people here?
Thank you.
There were children among the wounded. Children.
...No, now isn't the time. There are still others who need help.
Could you go and see how things are at Talonmarch? And afterwards, go and find Alisaie at Bayside Bevy.
The people are shaken. We must do what we can to help them, and quickly.
It breaks my heart to see what's become of Tuliyollal. I can't begin to imagine how the people are feeling.
It breaks my heart to see what's become of Tuliyollal. I can't begin to imagine how the people are feeling.
It breaks my heart to see what's become of Tuliyollal. I can't begin to imagine how the people are feeling.
It breaks my heart to see what's become of Tuliyollal. I can't begin to imagine how the people are feeling.
It breaks my heart to see what's become of Tuliyollal. I can't begin to imagine how the people are feeling.
I've helped all those I could find, and seen them delivered into the Landsguard's care.
As many casualties as there are, it would've been worse if the Landsguard hadn't fought as bravely as they did.
And if Zoraal Ja actually meant to harm the people...
I mean, look around. The buildings are hardly damaged.
I suspect his aim was more to incite fear. To show that he could strike whenever he pleases.
...But we can discuss that later. How is Lamaty'i?
Even after what happened to her father, she's trying so hard to fulfill her duty to the people...
Still, everyone has their limits. She needs rest, and soon.
Someone mentioned seeing her head towards the shore. Perhaps she's gone to the Gornitruq Gleamsands.
Steady, now!
I've brought you medicine. Drink!
There you are, Lamaty'i! I was beginning to─
Come on. Come on, take it. Please!
Lamaty'i...
Lamaty'i!
How...? How could I...?
Look at me, Lamaty'i.
You need rest, you and herhim both. I will tend to this soul.
But my people... I have to help them...
The Landsguard have matters well in hand. Trust in them.
If there's another attack, your people will need you to protect them. They'll need you to be sharp.
So please, rest. Consider it your duty.
I stood before them all... Said that we'd build a nation where everyone knows happiness...
So much for that promise!
What good is a Vow of Resolve who cannot save her people!?
You'll stick with me?
You're right. This isn't the time for sulking.
Thank you. My head's a little clearer now. I need to concentrate on what I can do rather than what I can't.
We've dealt with unfriendly factions before. From Yok Huy still longing for conquest to adherents of blessed siblings─people who were unwilling to listen.
Even so, I believed that by learning about one another and engaging in good faith, we could peacefully settle our differences. And we did.
My brother is different. There'll be no reasoning with him. He killed our people─our father. He'll stop at nothing to achieve his goal.
What's more, he has power. The power to destroy the peace we've worked so hard to preserve.
If I'm to protect that peace, then I must fight...
I must confront Zoraal Ja─and kill him!
I'm fine. Just needed a moment to settle my nerves.
Thank you for being there for me, and for urging me on despite all my sulking.
Sitting around complaining isn't very leader-like, is it?
So much has happened so quickly. I struggle to make sense of it all.
The strange soldiers, those floating ships, the new power Zoraal Ja commands...
Given everything he's done, and still intends to do, I know I can't afford to run headlong into battle. Not this time.
I cannot let this terrible pain in my heart lead me astray. But I will make it my strength─the strength to do what I must.
Right, I'm heading back to the palace. I need to talk strategy with Koana.
Could you and the others join us in a while? However we decide to proceed, I want you all to be aware of it.
Oh, and...could you tell Alisaie I'll be all right? She's probably at Bayside Bevy.
Oh, you're back. By that, I take it to mean Lamaty'i is feeling better.
She needs to be strong for the people of Tural, I understand that. But she doesn't have to do it alone.
So if she intends to fight, then we fight. Together.
That said...
I wish I knew exactly what we were up against.
It's clearly not a person, but it doesn't look like any automaton or magitek weapon I've ever seen.
As far and wide as you've traveled, though, perhaps you've encountered something similar before.
Would you mind taking a closer look? It may yield some clues as to Zoraal Ja's new powers.
At first, I assumed they were soldiers in armor. But when I cut them down, it became clear that wasn't the case.
At first, I assumed they were soldiers in armor. But when I cut them down, it became clear that wasn't the case.
At first, I assumed they were soldiers in armor. But when I cut them down, it became clear that wasn't the case.
At first, I assumed they were soldiers in armor. But when I cut them down, it became clear that wasn't the case.
At first, I assumed they were soldiers in armor. But when I cut them down, it became clear that wasn't the case.
You're supposed to be inspecting the soldier, remember?
So, what do you think?
Indeed... While it resembles a person, it has features that make it uncanny, the lack of a face not least of all. Did you see any sign of a power source?
So it probably doesn't run on ceruleum or any other conventional fuels.
I tried channeling aether into it earlier, but there was no response. That would seem to rule it out as an arcane entity.
It's completely lifeless now─a far cry from the unstoppable enemy it was in battle...
Even the material it's made of is a mystery. Rather than a metal, it's more akin to stone... Wait. Haven't we seen this somewhere recently?
That's right! The glowing stone used in the chamber with the gate to the golden city!
Uh, yes, it certainly is. But it's nothing like what was used to craft this machine.
Its stone is smooth and has a glow─like that which we saw in the chamber with the gate to the golden city.
And while the soldiers are a different color, the warships are the same black as the stone of the gate itself.
There has to be a connection. Let's share our observations with the others when we gather at Sunperch.
The sooner we get to the bottom of this mystery, the better.
Looks like everyone is here already.
Thank you for coming, everyone.
And thank you for taking charge in the relief effort. We would've fared far worse without you.
Someone had to do it, that's all. Come, let's take stock.
In terms of casualties, at least fifty died in the attack, and many times that number are wounded. All available healers are seeing to their care.
Structural damage, at least, is limited, so essential business can be conducted without issue.
That said, the people are understandably shaken. We must assuage their fears and begin working to restore things to normal as quickly as possible.
Now, the most confounding mystery remains our enemy...
And their mechanical soldiers created with technology that surpasses anything I've ever seen...
What is their nature? And how did Zoraal Ja manage to bring them under his command? Such things remain unknown.
They emerged from the dome encasing Yyasulani, we're quite certain of that much.
Ah, speaking of the dome, we have some theories, I'm told.
Indeed. I would like to call upon some helpers to join the discussion. May I invite them here?
By all means!
It's me. Permission has been granted. You can come in.
Greetings, everyone!
Raha! Y'shtola!
After that long voyage, I had hoped that we might be afforded a moment's rest, but I gather circumstances are quite dire.
All is well at the annex, never fear. I've already dealt with the most pressing matters, and others hold the fort in my absence.
Following the changing of Dawnservants, Gulool Ja Ja spoke about the golden city to his two successors.
Thanks to Wuk Lamat, I was allowed to attend that meeting.
What I heard led me to conclude that this was a matter for the Students. Thus did I call upon our comrades, who possess the requisite expertise.
It was actually after that that the dome manifested. But based on what we know, I have reason to believe that it is connected to the golden city.
While we're eager to help, we have limited familiarity with the situation. Might we trouble you to explain from the beginning?
As you know, it was a letter I found tucked away in the Baldesion Annex that brought me to Tural.
A letter from the Dawnservant addressed to my grandfather, sent some twenty years ago.
The request to investigate the city of gold.
Indeed. The strange thing is, there was mention of neither Tural nor the city in our records.
Hoping to learn the truth of my grandfather's mission─what he did and saw─I volunteered to help in the rite of succession.
At the end of which, I was able to hear the tale from Gulool Ja Ja.
Like us, my grandfather went to the deepest chamber of the Skydeep Cenote. And like us, he saw the gate to the golden city.
Is that what you required our help with? This gate?
It was. You see, the gate was opened once in the past, and...
...It led to another reflection.
I can take the story from here. Considerin' my part in these affairs, I reckon maybe I'm best equipped to speak on the matter.
I was there too, you see. In those ruins, together with Galuf and Gulool Ja Ja. And what I saw that day, I'll never forget...
