We knew you couldn't lose, Forename! None can defeat the guardian of Eorzea!
Now I see why they send you to deal with the primals! I've much work to do if I'm ever to attempt the same...
Impressive as always, Forename. 'Tis ever a pleasure to witness the spectacle of your martial prowess.
And judging by the smiles on these many faces, they, too, appreciate the hard-won strength that keeps the perils of the realm at bay.
“Guardian of Eorzea”... Yes, that is a most fitting title.
Do you recall when first we met? 'Twas at the memorial service for the Battle of Carteneau...
At the time, I was yet attempting to understand this land of Eorzea. I sought to grasp the reason why Grandfather willingly sacrificed himself to protect it.
I shall speak plainly: my initial impressions were less than favorable. Dire problems abounded, and yet the effort I saw expended towards their solution was haphazard and half-hearted. I thought Eorzeans a foolish and childish people.
Considering the shambles their home was in, I would not have been surprised if some had chosen to swear allegiance to Gaius and the order he proposed to enforce. The legatus's single-minded military invasion precluded any such switching of loyalties, of course.
Were it not for a desire to continue Grandfather's legacy, I would have abandoned the realm to its fate long ago. The threats were too many, the nations too self-involved and unstable.
'Twas you who convinced me the salvation of Eorzea was possible.
'Twas you who taught me─through countless acts of bravery─that what my grandsire sought to preserve was not the land, nor its history, nor any single nation...
It was the people. These wonderful, oft infuriating, stubborn people that suffer blow after terrible blow only to drag themselves back to their feet to face another day.
Though he never put such feelings into words, I believe Grandfather's admiration for this inextinguishable courage grew into a fervent wish─a wish to aid Eorzea and its inhabitants in charting a course for the future.
A wish that has now become my own.
I, too, will endeavor to take up the mantle of guardian of Eorzea, and champion these people who toil towards a better world.
Our cause, however, is not a simple one: the troubles that plague us are of a scale that cannot be solved by the Scions of the Seventh Dawn alone.
No, what is needed to tackle the root of the primal threat─and effectively counter the schemes of the Ascians─is a new, expanded organization that operates beyond the limitations of nations and borders.
If you would aid me in building such an organization, then pray let us continue this discussion back within the walls of the Rising Stones.
Thank you for coming, Forename. The world shifts and alters, and we, my friend, must ever be one step ahead of the chaos.
What I propose is the formation of a new organization─a group that shall pave the way for a truly united Eorzea...
Pray forgive me if I tread over old ground, but I would first speak of the grand plan.
Since the advent of the Seventh Astral Era, the leaders of the three nations have been deliberating over an accord that seeks to bring the disparate forces of Eorzea together into a single entity.
A realm-wide Grand Company, if you will. The military might of such an institution would be drawn from every corner of the land, and directed against threats that no single nation could hope to overcome alone.
Yet while the purpose of this hypothetical organization is undisputed, the logistics of its formation have become the source of endless debate...
And the longer these discussions continue, the more I sense the impetus towards unification draining away. Thus have I been campaigning for the creation of what might be considered a trial company.
It will be on a much smaller scale than what we hope to eventually achieve, but capable of the same manner of unrestricted operation accorded to the Scions. 'Tis my hope that the successful utilization of such a force will lend momentum to the lagging deliberations.
Also, being a primarily military outfit, I mean to assuage fears of its misuse by placing the fledgling organization under the authority of the Antecedent.
The Scions work tirelessly to protect Eorzea and its people.
...But as you yourself have witnessed with the refugee revolt, there are limitations to what even we can achieve.
With this new company under the Scions' command, however, we will be capable of responding to a wider range of difficulties without straining our resources or overtaxing your formidable talents.
The goals of my proposed organization and those of the Scions are ultimately identical─a point conceded by all concerned.
But before I can move forward with establishing this precursor to the true, border-spanning Grand Company, 'tis yet necessary that I visit the three leaders and gain their official approval.
A tiresome and time-consuming task... Which is why I would ask that you accompany me on the journey, and attend to the business of recruiting our inaugural members while I am otherwise engaged with bureaucratic formalities.
...Thank you. 'Tis reassuring indeed to know that the Bringer of Light and her discerning eye will be selecting our future allies.
Our first destination will be Limsa Lominsa. Let us rendezvous at Bulwark Hall.
Ah, there you are. I am ready to ascend to the Bridge and speak with Admiral Bloefhiswyn.
While the Admiral and I are finalizing permissory boundaries and signing parchments, I would have you begin the recruitment process in earnest.
I have, of course, endeavored to spread the word of our organization through various channels, but I believe a personal approach will reach many who may otherwise remain ignorant of the opportunity.
As for potential members, 'tis of no matter should they already be pledged to another institution, only that they are willing to lend their strength when the situation demands it. And you needn't range into the countryside─the upper decks alone are populated with sufficient candidates to suit our purpose.
Once you are satisfied with your recruiting efforts, meet me at the airship ticket counter that we might prepare for the next leg of our journey.
Master Alphinaud's new organization? Yes, I had heard the formation of his trial company was in the offing.
'Tis with regret, however, that I must decline your invitation. As commander of the Yellowjackets, the protection of Limsa Lominsa must needs receive my full attention.
