Why, Captain, why!? I trusted you!
Heh, you're stronger than I thought!
Damn you both, you're ruining everything!
Ware his spear, Forename!
That's enough, Baldewyn!
Your partner is dead and your plans are undone. You've no reason left to fight.
Stay out of this, Leofric! I don't take orders from you!
I may have spared your life before, but if you interfere, I will not show you mercy!
And what mercy will he show you, I wonder? You who have done so much in another man's name.
What are you blathering on about!?
Every fisherman in Crescent Cove knew about your meeting, you arrogant fool. Quiveron's men couldn't keep their mouths shut.
Imagine Lord Lolorito's surprise when he learned that a rank-and-file Brass Blade was using his name to advance a personal agenda...
He knows!? Seven hells! But I'm a captain, he wouldn't─
I was once a captain too, remember? And we both know what happened to me.
Well fought, boy. You've done the Brass Blades of the Rose proud.
Captain Leofric! Captain Baldewyn, he...he said that Lord Lolorito─
Lord Lolorito wouldn't waste his time on a small-scale smuggling operation. This is all Baldewyn's doing.
What else did he say? That all our brethren are no better, and that each and every one cares for naught but coin? Hah! Mere excuses to justify his schemes.
Aye, we've no shortage of greedy sods, some who'd probably sell their own mothers into slavery if the price was right.
But there are men like you, Fufulupa─men good and true, whom the smallfolk respect.
Which is why I gave you the dagger. The Brass Blades of the Rose need a leader with honor, and you're the most honorable man I know.
<sniffle> <sob> Captaaaaaain!
Thank you for all your help, Forename! The captain and I will escort Captain Baldewyn back to Horizon.
Pray visit me in town when next you return!
Welcome back, Forename! So much has happened!
Captain─ahem, Baldewyn has been arrested and stripped of rank, which means the Brass Blades of the Rose no longer have a captain.
Until a new one is designated, I've been ordered to serve as acting captain of the Horizon garrison.
Though doubtless this is only a temporary arrangement, I will do my utmost to represent my brethren and protect the people of Horizon!
Thank you, Forename, for your service to the sultanate. You are a true hero!
I salute you, honored friend. As acting captain, I should be much obliged if you would grant me a personal request.
In our efforts to ascertain the full extent of the former captain's corruption, we have been poring over his personal correspondence.
Our search unearthed this sealed letter addressed to a man named Owyne.
But he is one of the Sultansworn elite! I can think of no reason why he should have any dealings with Baldewyn!
We now know that the former captain was consorting with a coalition of criminals... Could it be that Owyne was, too!?
This letter may well serve as evidence of their collusion, and so I dare not tamper with it myself.
But given the events of recent days, I knew not whom to trust with this information─until now.
I have chosen you, Forename. Pray bear the letter to Mistress Momodi of the Quicksand, and relate the circumstances of its discovery.
Not only is she a staunch supporter of the sultana, but she is well acquainted with the Sultansworn. She will know how best to proceed.
Ah, Forename! It's been too long! Dadanen tells me you've been keepin' busy in Horizon.
I want you to know that I'm grateful for everythin' you've done for the people of Ul'dah.
Even though you've seen the seedier side of our city, you've continued to help your fellow man. Believe me, the folk around here love you for it.
Hmmm? What is it? You look like you've got somethin' to say.
...So that's what this is all about.
Fufulupa's thinkin' Owyne might've been in league with Baldewyn─that this letter could be proof of somethin' shady.
Well he needn't worry. Owyne's as loyal a Sultansworn as I've ever known. I haven't the foggiest what this says, but─
Wait a minute. Wasn't Owyne the one who...?
Oh, hells... I've got a bad feelin' about this.
Listen, Forename─I think I know what this is all about, but I need you to swear to keep it quiet.
If you'd rather wash your hands of this business, I won't hold it against you. But if you're determined to see it through to the bitter end, say the word and I'll explain.
Can I count on your discretion, Forename? If so, then listen closely...
The outside world believes Ul'dah to be a sultanate, ruled by Sultana Nanamo Ul Namo. Truth is, though, it's the six wealthiest citizens that hold the most sway─the Syndicate.
Be that as it may, the sultana's still got the support of the people...
But she might struggle to keep even that if a certain incident becomes public knowledge.
It pains me to say it, but Her Grace's crown, the symbol of the royal dynasty, has been stolen.
And Owyne...Owyne's the Sultansworn who was charged with guardin' it that night.
I'd bet anythin' this letter was written by the bastards who made off with the crown.
It can't be a coincidence that a man we know to have been fraternizin' with thieves had a letter for Owyne of all people, at this of all times.
You need to take this to the man himself, Forename. Tell him Momodi sent you, and that it concerns a lost heirloom.
If it looks as though the fellow needs help, I want you to lend it to him. The future of our fair city may depend on it.
