As the master of the Botanists' Guild, allow me to extend my personal thanks for helping my gifted pupil avoid such a decision. It would have been a grievous loss for all of us.
Oh, it was no trouble at all. In fact, I should thank you for being such an exemplary audience!
A true entertainer brings his all to every stage, be it a grand amphitheatre or cozy vegetable patch. I only hope you were half as thrilled as I was!
That scary, er...whatever that was looked so real! I never could have guessed it was just a garden-variety pumpkin. Truly, I feel privileged to have seen a master of illusion at his craft.
As do I. Would that every day were so filled with surprises!
As a token of our thanks, we've made some pumpkin cookies from our most recent crop. Please enjoy them in good health.
I do believe I can get used to this “being thanked” thing. Well, since you've gone through the trouble, I'd best eat them before they've cooled.
To my good health!
This is...DELICIOUS!
This flavor...I've never tasted anything like it!
The cookie's aether is tinged with something I can't quite pin down. It's bold, but not overpowering.
Is this the taste of...gratitude? Oh, how much of my life have I wasted only supping on terror, when all along a whole world of flavors was left neglected...
I'm...not entirely sure what you mean, but I shall consider your words a compliment, nonetheless. These cookies are but a small token of my appreciation─I only wish I could have given more...
You mean, I could potentially receive more gifts!? If frighten─er, performing my act will get me more baked delights, I'd better get to work straightaway! Why, this is shaping up to be quite the All Saints' Wake, indeed!
Heh heh... I could not have imagined a better day of celebration for all.
Our success here is in no small part thanks to you. As I believe that Papa Gruff now has matters well in hand, I shall return to my manor─pray visit if you are so inclined.
Ah, yes, before I forget. Do apprise that troublesome investigator of what has transpired here. Maybe he will finally cast his prying eyes elsewhere.
Truth be told, I didn't think this plan for a harmonious All Saints' Wake would ever work. But I'm glad to be proven wrong!
You really enjoyed those cookies, didn't you? I'll make another batch as soon as I can!
I'll continue to keep a close eye on the pumpkin-headed woman and her minions. Pray enjoy the festivities to your heart's content.
I heard rumors of monsters about, but it turns out it was all part of the festivities.
