As commander of the Stone Torches, my son Zirnberk will personally see it done.
Pipin. I would have you lead the raiding party. Assemble your finest, and with Tizona's blade clear the way.
Lord Lolorito, I pray you take charge of the search for Allagan relics. Surely you know of some being traded on open or clandestine markets, or sleeping in collectors' vaults.
Of course, I ask not that you do this out of the kindness of your heart. By all means, profit on the transactions. I wish you the joy of it.
The Final Days descend upon our world. If circumstances are truly as dire as they say, Ul'dah's best efforts may be for naught.
And yet, when we Eorzeans rose from the ashes to rebuild our broken realm, did we not learn one simple truth?
That which seems all but impossible to overcome alone, may yet be possible if we stand together.
It was the Scions who united us then, and it is the Scions who call upon us now.
Ul'dah will answer that call. We will summon our courage, and join the fight for our world's future.
You know your duties! I, Nanamo Ul Namo, seventeenth in the line of Ul, bid you good luck and godsspeed!
You know your duties! I, Nanamo Ul Namo, seventeenth in the line of Ul, bid you good luck and godsspeed!
We've fielded a goodly number, but our ranks are heavy with healers. And an abundance of restorative magicks will be of little help in destroying Dalamud's defenses.
Still, it has ever been thus with Gridania. We must steel ourselves for a protracted engagement...
In that case, might I suggest taking us along?
Commander Hext!? What are you doing here?
None of the shards in Gyr Abania are big enough to hold an internment hulk.
So we said to ourselves─why not lend our neighbors a hand? We thought you might be short on people with a talent for breaking things.
While it pains me to admit it...you are right. Are our deficiencies so plain to see?
It might've been a lifetime ago, but I was once one of the Scions assigned to the Shroud.
I know this forest well. I know your people. And I know we will be stronger if we fight this fight together.
Then I will impose upon you with a clear conscience. Come, let us speak of how to integrate our forces.
I won't let it all be for nothing. I promise you, Papalymo...
I won't let it all be for nothing. I promise you, Papalymo...
There...there you are!
We've no time to waste, Brother! Everyone has already... Ah.
That...that was a roar. A dragon's roar!
That...that was a roar. A dragon's roar!
...And so, in summation, the Eastern alliance, as well as the honorable Lord Lolorito himself, reached out to me for assistance in procuring these treasures of the divine─and I, in turn, do beseech the Confederacy for aid.
Hm? Is that...?
Hancock? What a surprise this is!
And a fortuitous one at that. I have a favor to ask, you see...
Though our friends are searching for refined adamantite and sacred relics, we will only know if they meet your requirements once they have arrived.
In the meantime, is there aught else we might do to be of service?
Ha! You've already done more than enough!
If I had to say, though, I could use someone who knows a thing or two about Allagan technology...
You there! The lad with the red eyes n' matchin' hair! You seem to know more than the average scholar!
Ha! If only Master Kokkol knew how right he was. While he and G'raha establish a rapport, why don't we help with preparations for the great exodus?
Indeed, this would mean going above and beyond the terms of our arrangement─but I propose this not to curry favor.
As confident as I am that we will succeed, we must be ready for every eventuality. This would also be an opportunity to familiarize ourselves with the logistics of traversing the great expanse. And if nothing else, it beats twiddling our thumbs while we wait for the adamantite.
Well, ain't you a bunch of helpful buggers? If you've a mind to lend a hand, I know where you ought to go.
Sharlayan Hamlet is lousy with researchers and scholarly types, busyin' themselves preparin' for the exodus. Pah! That lot need all the help they can get!
Well, then! Off we go!
I'll admit, without refined adamantite, I ain't got a bloody clue how else I could get the aetherburner performin' any better! If you lot don't come up with the goods, we're buggered!
I shall endeavor to provide Master Kokkol with whatever information he should require!
What a quaint little settlement this is. A shame it is hidden underground.
In order to protect the secrets of the Central Circuit, the researchers must navigate a bewildering maze of paperwork before they are permitted to return to the surface.
I suppose it's no different than any other aspect of Sharlayan society. We do love our bureaucracy. It's very much a mirror of the city above, which is perhaps how it came to be called Sharlayan Hamlet.
I don't mind a bit of heavy lifting, but I draw the line at paperwork. So much as wave a sheaf of documents at me and I'll put my lance through it.
As surprised as I was to learn the Forum planned to send everyone to the moon, I can't imagine how the commonfolk must feel about it.
Do my senses deceive me? In the shadow of yon corner...
Hmm. One can but hope this leadeth not to mischievous undertakings.
From what I can tell, a lot of the people actually live down here.
I don't know how much help we can offer, but I daresay they'll benefit from some of that “fresh inspiration” Scholarch Montichaigne mentioned.
Let's start by asking around, ideally without getting in anyone's way!
Let's meet by the aetheryte once our work is done.
