<gasp>
S-Stay back! Away, far, back! I'm n-not a...not a...
Gah, it's no use! Pointless, hopeless, no use!
P-P-Please, d-don't hurt me! I only wish to talk. Yes, yes, just talk...
I...I... Gaaah!
This was a stupid plan! Stupid, stupid, stupid! But...if I tell no one, then everyone will...
Gah, she found me again! What to do, what to do, what to do...?
I...I come in peace, only to talk! Speak, say, talk! So please, please, do not hurt me!
So this is our wily kobold infiltrator, is it? No wonder the soldiers were on edge. He could very well give one a bruised knee.
Huzzah, we've got him! Fine work, Scions!
So, little one─thought you could sneak into my camp, did you? Plottin' to steal my crystals, were you!?
No, no, no! I came to talk! To ask for help! But when your soldiers saw me, they drew their weapons and shouted, and I...I─
Now, now, let us all take a deep breath and discuss this like civilized...individuals. What is your name, child?
Pickman Ga Bu of the 620th Order! At least...I will be a pickman...one day.
Well met, Ga Bu. I am Alphinaud, and this is my sister Alisaie.
Forename, the woman who found you, is our friend. And now that you know our names, we can be friends too.
Now, Commander Bloeidin here thinks you wanted to take his crystals, Ga Bu, but you said you came to ask for help. Why to us, and not to your own people? What happened, Ga Bu? Can you tell us?
I...um...er...
No one is going to hurt you, all right? Not while we're here. I promise.
Th-The...The patriarch, he...he's...<gulp> ...The patriarch is going to summon the Great Father again, and you have to stop him! Beat him, fight him, stop him!
Ga Bu's parents said they didn't want it, along with many others! But the patriarch wouldn't listen. He was so angry─raging, fuming, angry!
He said that if they didn't have iron in their hearts, they would serve as coke for the furnace. And then the guards took my parents and the others away, and I haven't seen any of them since...
"Coke for the furnace“?
I did not want to believe it...but I have heard tales of foci fashioned from the bones of beastmen, which worshipers use in their rituals, hoping to summon more powerful incarnations of their gods.
By the Twelve... That is... That is sickening.
No one listens to Ga Bu, no matter how much he cries─pleads, begs, cries! They do not listen, only talk about punishing the overdwellers and praising the Great Father.
Ga Bu loves the Great Father, but he loves his parents too! So please, help Ga Bu stop the patriarch and save his parents!
Commander─advise Maelstrom Command that Titan's summoning is imminent. Should the worst come to the worst, we will require their support.
Time being of the essence, we three will attempt to infiltrate the kobold stronghold, secure their crystals, and free the prisoners.
Well, if you're sure... You'll forgive me if I don't seem optimistic. We'll make ready, just in case.
I have faith that we may yet stop the ritual. We would surely have detected the associated aetheric disturbance had Titan manifested already.
But I cannot speak for the prisoners. Twelve have mercy... That they would even contemplate sacrificing their own flesh and blood─brothers and sisters, mothers and fathers...
Time is of the essence. We must see what else Ga Bu knows and formulate a plan without further delay.
I heard Great Father Titan loves crystals. Cherishes, covets, loves them, and if we gather enough, He will return. That's why the patriarch told everyone to go forth and gather them.
So I was thinking, if we take all the crystals away, maybe the Great Father won't come?
Very good, Ga Bu. I was just thinking the same thing. Do you know where these crystals are stored?
I know, I know, oh, oh, oh! Several spots, each defended by a different order!
Ga Bu wanted to steal them, but he was too afraid to go alone. Yes, yes, too afraid to go alone.
But together we can take them away and hide them! Come, come─Ga Bu will lead you to the first cache!
Quickly, quickly!
Do you have them all? Good. Lead on, Ga Bu.
This way, this way!
Time is short. If you have the crystals, we should move on to the next cache.
Did you hear me, Brother? Brother!
Aye, aye, it's just that...
I am quite certain that crate once bore Ishgardian seals. Someone took great pains to remove all traces, but enough remains to make out the pattern. See for yourself.
I struggle to imagine kobolds traveling to Coerthas to obtain crystals, much less bothering to conceal their origins.
I suspect these crystals were smuggled into Vylbrand by another party─most likely a pawn of the Ascians, as Thancred speculated.
I don't understand. Who are the Ascians? Do they worship Great Father Titan too?
Ah, never you mind about that. As Alisaie said, we do not have a lot of time. Can you lead us to the next cache, Ga Bu?
Yes, yes, yes, of course! Ga Bu knows the way!
This next one is the last and is very large! Very big, very huge, very large!
This next one is the last and is very large! Very big, very huge, very large!
Confound it. What about you, Forename? Any luck?
Nothing, nothing, nothing! But this cannot be! Ga Bu saw them! Spied, spotted, saw!
Think, Brother, think! They must have moved them, yes? The question is, where to, and why?
...Within O'Ghomoro, where they summoned Titan once before and mean to do so again. It is the only explanation.
What about Mother and Father and the others!? We have to help them!
And we will, Ga Bu, we will! Stay calm─we still have time.
They have yet to call for the remaining crates, yes? If they had, then they would have found the other caches empty and sounded the alarum.
Nevertheless, I believe the time for stealth has passed. We must breach the Navel and seize the remaining crystals. There is no other way to prevent Titan's summoning.
But first, give me your crystals, that I might deliver them into Commander Bloeidin's custody. We dare not take them into the bowels of the mountain.
The crystals, Forename, if you would be so kind.
Thank you. I shall deliver them to Camp Overlook for safekeeping and brief Commander Bloeidin on the situation.
Pray go on ahead. As I recall, there is an aetheryte within the U'Ghamaro Mines that should deliver you to the Navel. Ga Bu doubtless knows the way. Wait for me there─I shall rejoin you anon.
Strange─I would've thought you eager to remain in the thick of the action. But if this is what you would prefer, then godsspeed, Brother.
This way, this way!
Ah. I take it this is the aetheryte we seek? Right then.
As soon as Alphinaud arrives, we go. I trust you're feeling suitably heroic, Forename─there's no telling what sort of resistance we'll face in there.
Quickly, you clods! Briskly, swiftly, quickly! I will not suffer any further delays!
Lay down your arms and surrender! We have your crystals. There will be no summoning this day!
Overdwellers!? Here!? But how did you─
Where are my parents, Patriarch!? Where are they!?
Mother...? Father...
"Coke for the furnace“? You monster. How could you!?
I... We are but servants of the Lord of Crags. We are His, that He may drink of our blood and partake of our flesh─that He might draw upon the strength of His children and defend them from the tyranny of the overdwellers!
No, Alisaie. Not yet.
I understand, Patriarch. I do. Your fear, your anger, your hate...
You would do anything to protect your people─anything to deliver them from despair. Whatever it takes to ensure that those who threaten you can never do so again.
But in your single-minded pursuit of this objective, you have brought suffering on your own kith and kin. You have sacrificed the lives of the very people you sought to protect!
But it need not be this way, Patriarch! Renounce this bloody course! Cease your attempts to summon your god, and work with us, together, to build a lasting peace!
Another peace to be abandoned at the overdwellers' convenience! Oathbreakers, all of you! Liars, betrayers, oathbreakers!
You take and you take and you take, and when you have had your fill, you sue for peace. You promise that this time, this time is the last─until you grow hungry again!
And when we dare to defend ourselves, you declare that this “beast tribe” cannot be suffered to live! That our god drains the land of aether, and brings naught but suffering─death, destruction, suffering upon us all!
I will hear no more lies from you and yours, overdweller! You've ruined your own lands─you'll not ruin ours!
I said I'd come for you, and I did! I'm here...I'm here...I'm here...
Say something, please. Please...
PLEEEAAASE!!!
Wake up... Wake up...Wake up wake up wake up wake upwake up wake up─
WAAAKE UUUUUUP!!!
Seven hells!
I'm here...I'm here...I'm here...
Alphinaud!
Leave him to me!
We must away!
By the Twelve, how could I be so foolish? I should have known better than to let Ga Bu accompany us, given what we were like to find.
His anguish and despair have served to birth a primal, just as surely as would the supplications of the faithful. Worse, being born of such tumultuous emotion, this incarnation of Titan seems incapable of naught but violence.
If we have one cause for optimism, it is that while many crystals were present, they represented but a fraction of the quantity intended for the summoning ritual.
...Meaning that Titan must be far weaker than planned.
Be that as it may, he is yet a primal, and the longer we leave him to bleed the land of aether, the stronger he will grow.
And should Titan be permitted to leave O'Ghomoro, more lives will be lost. The Maelstrom will rally their troops, and the cycle will continue.
Forename, you know what must be done. Will you face the Lord of Crags once more?
Thank you, my friend.
Alisaie and I will tend to Ga Bu. When you have finished with the primal, look for us in Camp Overlook. We will be expecting you.
I'm here... I'm here... I'm here...
I said I'd come! I said I'd come!I'm here... I'm here... I'm here...
Mother... Father... I can't... I can't find you...
WAAAKE UUUUUUP!!!
Why... Why... Why... WHYYYYYY!!!
Where are you... Where are you...
Ah, there she is! Did I not tell you she would return safe and sound?
The deed is done, then? Titan is no more?
Good. There has been enough tragedy this day.
He has been like that since he regained consciousness. We believe he can hear us, but he has made no attempt to respond.
He is almost certainly still in shock, but...But we cannot discount the possibility that he succumbed to the primal's influence. Should that prove to be the case─
He must be put to death, like any other thrall. Such is the Alliance's policy, yes?
...You have the right of it.
But we must not rush to conclusions. After all, we once feared that Ysayle's followers were beyond reason, and many have since laid down their arms and accepted Ishgard's peace.
...We can but watch, wait, and pray.
There is naught to be gained from dwelling on an eventuality over which we have no control, much less one which may never even come to pass. Let us tend to more immediate matters─informing Commander Bloeidin of Titan's demise, for example.
You may be certain that he will be glad of the news. Would you be so kind as to break it to him?
Ah, you're a sight for sore eyes! When the others came back without you, I feared the worst, but they said you had matters well in hand.
All settled then, is it? I'm glad to hear it. But not half as glad as my men'll be, believe you me!
Regardless of whether or not he was summoned properly, a primal's a primal. And there ain't a soul in the Maelstrom that hasn't lost a friend to one.
Don't get me wrong, like─we were all prepared to do our part. But we weren't so naive as to think we'd live to tell the tale.
Thankfully, of course, it didn't come to that─which, my friend, sounds to me like cause for celebration! Now, I know you lot have places to be, but why not stay the night? We'd be honored to raise a glass to the triumphant return of Titan's Bane!
Who goes there?
Oh, it's you. Forgive me for straying from the camp.
He hasn't been feeling too welcome, to say the least. I thought a change of scenery might do him good, but, alas...
It's so quiet out here. The stars spread out before us, beckoning across time and space...
“Dawn may banish even the darkest night.” How bitterly beautiful, those words.
I should be stronger for all my experiences, yet my heart aches more than ever.
I never understood why Grandfather gave his life that day. I thought that, if I came here, I would find the answers I needed. But when I finally laid eyes on the land he sacrificed everything to save, saw firsthand the bickering, the pettiness...
I was disappointed. I was angry. I could not fathom how these people were more deserving of his love than his family...than me...
Nevertheless, I had to believe he had good reason. I was determined to uncover the whole truth of the Calamity, and perhaps in so doing find my own purpose in this sea of chaos.
My travels have been enlightening, but I cannot say that I have enjoyed them. I have lost count of the many petty crises that I was helpless to resolve, and of the people whose actions I could not understand.
There were others, of course. Good people. People with whom I felt a kinship...whose lives I could not save.
I found myself asking what it was all for. Why try if I was doomed to fail in the end? But then I recalled Grandfather's words to my father, years ago, before he left Sharlayan behind forever.
“To ignore the plight of those one might conceivably save is not wisdom─it is indolence. We must all protect that which we hold most dear in the manner of our own choosing.”
...We have to try, do we not?
Of course, it's one thing to try and another to do. There were times while I was tracking the Warriors of Darkness when I faltered─when I was afraid. But then I thought of my brother, of Urianger...
Ah, pray forgive me. This conversation has been rather one-sided, hasn't it. Mayhap you could recount some of your adventures in Ishgard?
Gods, they must have been at each other's throats from dawn till dusk...
I daresay you managed to keep the peace, though. Merely being in the presence of the Warrior of Light is surely enough to shame anyone into behaving.
He is quite a man, the lord commander. I shall have to thank him for his kindness. Truth be told, I was rather taken aback by it all. Given Ishgard's famous love of foreigners, I was half expecting the chirurgeons to berate me for bleeding.
But I never heard an unkind word. Everyone there seemed relatively open and friendly, in fact─thanks in no small part to your tireless efforts, I suspect.
We had no clear memories of our life in the hinterlands, having returned to the motherland as infants. Nevertheless, I am quite familiar with Master Matoya, as is every Sharlayan. I should like to speak with her someday.
'Twould not surprise me if Alphinaud's recent maturation was at least somewhat due to her sage guidance. I would never tell him this, of course, but there have been moments when I've caught myself thinking of him as an elder brother...
The hopes and dreams of so many rest on your shoulders, Warrior of Light.
As long as the sun rises, we can but carry on. For the sake of those we hold dear.
To what end dost thou cling to the tainted gifts of the Mother?
Every tool has its purpose. Even this.
Well, what is it?
The seeds sown in Vylbrand have been plucked from the earth and left to wither.
Alas, Titan's demise sufficed not to drive the kobolds to deepest desperation.
What did the man in white have to say?
That we are to proceed as he did first set forth.
Well that's easy for him to say! It's not his bloody world on the brink of destruction, is it!?
Be thou well reminded that with an end to Ishgard's unrest, naught now remaineth to preoccupy the Scions' thoughts. And thus may they devote their every energy to thwarting thee and thine. I foresee only greater difficulties ahead.
Foresee? Are you sure you don't welcome them? I'm starting to think you might hold a candle for your old friends, after all...
Pray do not mistake mine intent. I but look upon the path which lieth before us with due trepidation.
Shouldst thou be of like mind, pray consider, then, another course, for the power to invoke the Ardor belongeth not unto the Ascians alone.
With thine own hand, strike down thine enemy─the so-called hero who would see thy home lost to Light. Do but this and thou wouldst, at a single stroke, disrupt the all too delicate balance of this realm, plunging her straightways into chaos.
You do realize what you're suggesting, yes?
“To ignore the plight of those one might conceivably save is not wisdom─it is indolence.” The words of my teacher, and a creed I hold close to my heart.
Very well. Draw her out. We'll make it quick.
It shall be done.
What good a creed one cannot uphold? What hurts soothed, what lives saved... O hapless fool, what hast thou wrought by thine own hands?
Minfilia, my friends─I shall not now beg your forgiveness.
Full deeply though it paineth me to walk it, I shall not stray from my chosen path. As Moenbryda remained steadfast, so too shall I...
What ho, Forename. I trust you had a good night's rest?
I was but this moment speaking with Thancred and Y'shtola via linkpearl. They had some interesting news to share.
Apparently, during the course of their respective investigations, both came across crates which had once borne Ishgardian seals. 'Twould seem that someone in the capital has been very busy indeed.
Accordingly, the Temple Knights have launched a full-scale investigation. Ser Aymeric believes that it is only a matter of time before the culprits are found, but we shall have to wait and see.
In the meantime, it seems only prudent to look into the recent activities of the other tribes, in case they too are flush with Ishgardian crystals. And with that in mind, I suggest we pay Urianger another─
Wait. Where is Alisaie? She was here a moment ago...with Ga Bu.
Ah, let me guess: it's time to leave, isn't it?
My apologies for disappearing again. If it is any consolation, I have already packed my things.
...How is he?
Brother. Commander Bloeidin. Something tells me you are not solely here out of concern for his welfare.
But to answer your question, there has been no change. He will not speak or eat─I'm not even sure if he slept. If he did, he seems none the better for it. He just...shuffles about with that same expression on his face...
You will look after him, won't you, Commander─and treat him with every kindness?
He's still in there. I know it. Beneath the anguish and the despair, he's still fighting with all his heart.
He deserves to be given that chance. Until he comes back to us─until we know for certain what has become of him.
Aye, aye, you needn't worry. If he hadn't risked his neck to warn us and help you secure the better part of the crystals, this could've turned out a damn sight worse than it did. We'll not soon forget that, and nor will Maelstrom Command.
I'm so sorry, Ga Bu. I truly am. You should never have been made to... And I know I cannot possibly understand...
Mayhap there is nothing I can do or say. The pain, the anger...the helplessness...
...Hold fast to the memories of better times. Remember them as they were.
And when it hurts so much your heart feels fit to burst, let it burst. Let it burst, and fill up again with your love for them. And never, ever forget.
...Come along, little one.
I...I will remember them. And you, Alisaie. Thank you...
...
Have faith, Sister. Your words have reached him. In time, he will recover...
And those who orchestrated these events will be made to answer for their crimes.
A thousand times over, aye. There will be a reckoning.
We have heard the glad tidings from O'Ghomoro, my friends. By the grace of the Twelve and your most valiant efforts, the people of Limsa Lominsa may rest easy.
I should like to think so, yes. Though we failed to prevent the Lord of Crags from manifesting, we did succeed in weakening him, enabling our friend to dispatch him before the Warriors of Darkness could make matters worse. 'Twas by no means an unmitigated success, but it will have to suffice.
Then let us speak of another matter─one which weigheth heavy on my lady's mind.
As thou didst request, I sought out The Gerun Oracles, that we might better understand the aims of the Warriors of Darkness.
Though their copious use of allegory defieth any single interpretation, the oracles paint a most disturbing picture─one of worlds parallel to our own, apart yet linked, reduced to ruin with every Umbral Calamity...
“Seven times have they succeeded.” Then of ten and three, only six worlds remain.
Aye. All is as my lady Minfilia spake unto thee.
As for what becometh of these reflections when they and the Source are rejoined...
“Frail flesh undone in Umbral fires,Each soul surrend'reth to Her call,To flow unto the endless sea,There to endure as one and none.”
Then...then if the Warriors of Darkness succeed, everyone in their world will die?
In essence, aye. The verse speaketh of the renunciation of the flesh, and subsequent return to the Lifestream.
However, this fate may yet be preferable to the alternative, for if the First were to fall to transcendent Light in the manner the Warriors of Darkness described, it would give way unto a void wherein none may know either life or death.
Far better to die, they reason─for in death there is life. The essence of a soul which returneth unto the Source may be born anew. Saved. Such, at least, is their belief, I surmise.
If that is true, then... Gods. No one should ever have to make such a choice.
...Ere we speak further on this subject, I would share with thee another recent discovery.
'Twould seem that several sizable shipments of crystals have been delivered into the hands of certain Ala Mhigan parties.
Ala Mhigans? Strange... And you believe this to be the work of the same Ishgardian smugglers who supplied the beast tribes?
I know beyond a shadow of a doubt. And lest thou wonder at their motive, I would remind you that the Ascians did once attempt to bring about the summoning of Rhalgr.
The individuals who took receipt of these shipments are refugees belonging to a group devoted to the cause of Ala Mhigan liberation.
It may also interest thee to know that their Ishgardian suppliers appear to be none other than the remnants of Eline Roaille's network of spies.
Surely you jest... And yet...it is not so surprising. Bereft of leadership and hunted by the Alliance, I can well imagine such villains being desperate enough to conspire with the Ascians. Assuming they even know─or care─who their new employers are.
All of which is irrelevant. Forgive me. We must seek out the Resistance group which received the crystals without delay. Forename, Alisaie─will you come with me to Little Ala Mhigo?
Yes, of course. I should like to hear what they have to say for themselves. Firsthand.
May you ever walk in the light of the Crystal.
Alphinaud, Alisaie, Forename─are you three listening? Good. I have tidings.
The Temple Knights raided the smugglers' warehouse less than an hour ago. A cursory interrogation of the prisoners yielded confirmation that they were in the employ of─and I hope you are sitting down─a man in black robes.
Then you have them? And the crystals too?
What few remained, aye. Regrettably, it would seem they dispatched one final shipment in the hours before we struck.
'Twas bound for Little Ala Mhigo, we are told, where it will be received by members of a local Resistance group.
Since Ser Aymeric's men no longer have need of my services, I have a mind to head that way.
As do we, by happy coincidence. We learned of the shipments but a few moments ago.
Hah! And there I was thinking I might finally be one step ahead of the Warrior of Light and her little helpers.
...Ah! Wait a moment! There is more! And I defy you not to be surprised by this revelation.
The leader of the Ishgardian smugglers was formerly in the employ of one Eline Roaille─the infamous Ivy herself!
Once again, Thancred, I fear I must inform you that─
Thancred─with whom else have you shared this information?
About the smugglers? No one. As I think I mentioned, the raid was less than an hour ago. I was planning to contact Y'shtola next, but is there someone else you would have me notify first?
No...there isn't.
What in the world has gotten into her? It is twice now that we have sought Urianger's aid, and twice she has treated him as if he were a stranger.
The Archon was one of Grandfather's most dedicated pupils, and spent as much time at the Leveilleur estate as we did. He's practically a member of the family!
Truth be told, I struggle to recall a day from my childhood when I did not see the three of them laughing together.
If this continues, I may have to raise the matter. Later, though─Little Ala Mhigo awaits.
I will get to the bottom of this...
Oh, forgive me. I was... It has been a long day. Did you have something to say?
Urianger? Oh, I... I've always struggled to understand what's going on in his head. Now more than ever.
Listen, Forename─if anything should happen, it should be me who... Just know that I am prepared to do what must be done.
Right, then. To more pressing matters. Since we have no idea when Thancred might arrive, I suggest we see what information we can gather in his absence.
So, to review: we are reliably informed that members of the Ala Mhigan Resistance operating here have taken receipt of several large shipments of crystals, our task being to ascertain who and why.
Given the size of the settlement, I find it hard to believe that anyone here could be wholly unaware of the Resistance's movements. The challenge, of course, will be finding individuals who are both able and willing to share such information with outsiders.
It would seem sensible to divide our forces. Forename, why don't you question the residents in the eastern half of town? Alisaie and I will do the same in the west, and afterwards we can rendezvous here to share our findings.
