Bah!A child's trick!
Gaaarrrggghhh!
My thanks, boy!
My thanks. Your intervention proved most timely.
Well, well...I did not think to meet an Eorzean in this place, let alone a Scion.
You know of me, sir?
I have some small...history with your order.
But I would speak of the present. Know you your assailants? And the severity of your predicament?
The soldiers bore the insignia of the Emperor's personal guard...
And I could venture a guess as to their motive. But you yet have us at a disadvantage, sir─will you not tell us who you are?
Our names are not yours for the asking. And as for our purpose...let this be your answer.
An Ascian mask!
The face of our prey.
We must away before more arrive. Come with us or stay, but make your choice now.
Even should we manage the long trek out of the Burn and secure passage to the capital, we would no doubt be greeted by the Emperor's guard...
Indeed.We accept your gracious offer, uh...
“Shadowhunter” will suffice for the present.
Come.
Ugh, this is intolerable. But as much as I wish it were otherwise, there is nothing we can do for Alphinaud now but pray for his success.
Well...that is not entirely true.
While your brother journeys to Garlemald from the east, I could make my way there from Ala Mhigo and find out what there is to be learned in the Empire's western provinces.
Then I'm coming with you! I can't very well sit here sipping tea if there's action to be taken!
Forgive me, Alisaie, but the provinces are hostile territory, and stealth is all important. It is safer that I go alone.
I can sneak well enough when the situation demands it! Don't patronize me!
Not you too.
I understand your frustration, Alisaie, but Forename has the right of it. We must defer to Thancred's expertise in this matter.
And how exactly would that be any better?
Ahem. I must refuse your company as well, my friend. Formidable though you are, the success of my mission depends on moving unnoticed, and lest you forget, you have grown rather famous. I trust you understand...
<sigh> ...Fine. Just promise you'll be careful.
It seems that praying is to be the extent of my contribution after all....But I will stay behind, as I have been bid.
We all have our talents. Mine just happen to involve a silver tongue and soft soles. I promise to send word the moment I learn aught of consequence.
See that you notify me too. I mean to depart for Doma as soon as I find a suitable East Aldenard vessel to bear me thither, but I shall return if I am needed.
Be sure to drop in whenever you're next in the area, Forename. With any luck, I'll have a painfully detailed report from Alphinaud to share.
Oh, Forename. If you've come here hoping for news, I'm afraid there isn't any.
Everything is exactly as it was. Y'shtola is still investigating primals in the Far East, Thancred is still gathering intelligence in the imperial provinces, and Alphinaud is still...out there somewhere.
There's been no word since his first scheduled report, nor does he respond to calls. And all the while, I'm just meant to sit around here waiting. It's driving me mad!
