Pray forgive my lateness!
My observation subject was rather irritable, and it took a while to settle it down...
No need to apologize─your work takes precedence. Besides, we had a pleasant conversation in the meantime.
You're too kind. Now then, I'm told you wished to ask me some questions?
Indeed. I've an interest in one of Hermes's creations─Meteion. You witnessed a host of them take flight, yes?
Ohhh, that! Yes! Yes, I did!
'Twas in the dark of the morn. I'd left the Thalassai after nocturnal observation.
As I walked along, I spied a bright light climbing high into the southeastern skies. Then, in an instant, it was gone─like a shooting star, only rising rather than falling.
But then another shot up. Then another, and another. Intrigued, I made my way to the edge to investigate.
And who should I spy on an isle to the south but Hermes and Meteion─the Meteia, rather.
There were lots of them, and I realized they must be the shooting stars that I'd seen!
A dazzling spectacle indeed... Have you spoken with Hermes about this?
Oh, yes. The sight left such an impression on me that I approached him about his mystery project the very next day.
Alas, he said that he couldn't reveal anything just yet─that he needed to conduct further tests.
It shouldn't be long now, though.
He often returns to that isle, and I have a feeling he's nearing a breakthrough.
Splendid. We are likewise eager for the details.
Well, that is all we wished to ask. Thank you for taking the time to indulge our curiosity.
You're very welcome. It's always a pleasure to speak with other inquisitive souls.
Oh, and will you be descending now? If so, I shall link the doors for you.
Please.
So, another piece of the puzzle falls into place.
From what we've learned thus far, I think we can safely conclude that Hermes hasn't been revealing the details of his research to others.
Which suggests that either someone will appropriate his discoveries and make use of them...or that Hermes himself will have a hand in causing the Final Days.
Since we have no reason yet to suspect the former, we should consider the latter the more likely possibility. Proceeding under that assumption, our next step should be to divine why─or even if─he might desire such a terrible fate for our star.
I should like to visit the site from which Hermes sent forth the Meteia. If we are fortunate, we might find some hint of what drives this research of his.
Galene said she spotted them in the southeast, rising from an isle she could see from the edge.
If we stand at that same vantage point, it should not prove too difficult to locate the isle in question. Let's take a look, shall we?
Now, if I were conducting some mystery research, where would I go...?
...Ah. What about that one?
Have you the means to fly? 'Tis quite a distance away.
Hm. Inconvenient, but hardly an insurmountable problem.
To me, Argos!
My friend, would you mind creating a double to carry Forename here over to that island?
