Greetings, Forename Surname. Miounne sent word to expect you.
My name is Galfrid, and I am responsible for training our Twin Adder recruits.
I thank you for volunteering your assistance. The Twelveswood is much changed since the calamitous arrival of the Seventh Umbral Era five years ago.
The power of the elementals wanes, and the harmony of the forest gives way to chaos. A great abundance of life has been lost as the strong run rampant, stifling the weak and new-sprung.
Though it may not appear so to the eyes of an outsider, the Twelveswood is ailing─its once rich variety a fading memory.
For the citizens of Gridania, the restoration of the forest is a sacred duty. And it is my hope that adventurers such as you will offer to aid them in their struggle.
Listen to their requests, and do all that you can. May the elementals bless your endeavors, Forename Surname.
I see you are eager to lend a hand, Forename. That is well. But I cannot in good conscience send you into the forest until I have established that your equipment is equal to the task.
It bears repeating that, in the five years since the dawn of the Seventh Umbral Era, many of the Twelveswood's creatures have transformed into vicious, bloodthirsty monsters. Venturing into the forest without the proper gear is tantamount to suicide.
I suggest you take some time to evaluate your equipment. Once you deem your armor to be of sufficient quality, present yourself to me for inspection.
Ready for inspection are we? Right, then! Eyes forward! Back straight!
Hmmm... Yes, I think you pass muster.
You would be surprised at how many young, promising soldiers get themselves killed by rushing off into the woods without first donning a decent set of armor.
Your equipment, however, should provide the required degree of protection. Consider yourself ready for duty, Forename.
Ah, Forename. By your tireless efforts, you have proven yourself a friend to Gridania. I believe you can be trusted with sensitive intelligence.
I would assign you a mission of considerable import, yet the need for secrecy prevents me from disclosing its details until you have pledged your participation. I am authorized to tell you only that it concerns suspicious activity in the Twelveswood. Say that you will lend us your aid, and I shall proceed with the briefing.
Good. Time is of the essence, so listen well.
You will by now have heard that a suspicious individual has been seen prowling the Twelveswood.
And you may also be aware that Ixali activity has risen sharply in the region of late. What you may not know is that this increase coincided almost exactly with the first recorded sighting of the aforementioned individual.
Suspecting a connection, we tightened our surveillance in hopes of tracking down our unknown visitor. Alas, our quarry is proving to be exceedingly elusive─almost as if he knows our movements ahead of time.
But where whole units have failed, a lone adventurer may yet succeed. Acting independently and covertly, you may be able to close in on our quarry unnoticed.
Fear and anxiety are beginning to take their toll upon the citizenry, Forename. For their sake, I ask that you aid us in this investigation.
You have my gratitude. With your help, I am hopeful we will shed light upon this mystery.
Begin your search at Lifemend Stump. It is there that the majority of the sightings took place.
Be forewarned: my people cannot offer you support, lest our quarry catch scent of our presence and evade us yet again. Proceed with caution.
