It's all about having the will to help your fellow man, and the resolve to see it through!
Sorry, milady! I got a bit overexcited the other day─couldn't get my words out.
The name's Vonard, milady. I'm with the guard, but I don't just want to protect Lakeland─I want to protect the lot. Just like the Warriors of Light.
Sadly, our duties prevent us from venturing too far from our own little corner of Norvrandt.
What we'd really like to do is travel─to better ourselves, and go where the need is greatest...
But everyone has to start somewhere, don't they? For now, if we can stop Nightshade from robbing the odd fisherman, then that's what we'll do.
Well, well... Future heroes of the First, do you think?
They want not for spirit. 'Tis but a pity they draw inspiration from so clouded a wellspring...
Yet it availeth us naught to fret in idleness. We must needs press on if we are to bring Elidibus's schemes to light.
Though our respite was cut short, I daresay we are all eager to avail ourselves of such knowledge as the ruins may hold.
Aye, and I doubt further contemplation of Elidibus's machinations will be conducive to relaxation. We may as well make for the Split Hull now.
All are present. Now we need but await Bismarck's coming.
'Tis time. Pray make ready.
Unlike Amaurot, the ruins which we now seek are no illusion. There is no knowing what awaiteth below.
We must hope that whatever slumbers in the depths will help to shed some light upon Elidibus's recent activities.
Whether or not we find the knowledge we seek, we have a duty to stem the benthos' aggression. Eulmore has only just begun to rebuild.
What are we waiting for?
We can't be certain that the benthos are all we'll find down there. Stay alert.
I like to think my skills have improved in some small way since the last time we fought together. I won't let you down.
[To the depths!]
Mayhaps 'twas Bismarck with whom I ought have bargained...
For heavens' sake...
I see we're not to have a peaceful journey.
[These are poor neighbors indeed...]
[The time has come to part with these interlopers.]
Such ease of motion despite his size─it's truly a wonder.
I'm certainly glad for Bismarck's preparation now.
This lot are nothing compared to the barnacles.
[The walls fall─we must hurry.]
The force of it...'twas nigh overwhelming.
[We were fortunate... But what is all of this?]
Oof!
Just...stay on your feet this time, please.
[Tiresome creatures.]
[There it lies. I give you my breath...]
[Hah!]
[Your wish is granted. Go, little wanderers.]
Incredible!
Our deepest gratitude, great one.
What is that?
We are fated to happen upon strange abominations, apparently.
Never have I seen the like.
Some manner of harrowing, perhaps...?
Might similar creatures dwell beneath the seas of the Source?
And it stinks. Lovely.
Look at this architecture...
The similarities to Amaurot are undeniable.
