<pant> <pant> W-Watch out! A goblin!
Gallien!
C-Captain? But...why? You should all be on your way...
Who do you take us for!? We're Ala Mhigans, and Ala Mhigans never forsake one another, hardships be damned!
Remember the oath we swore, godsdammit─the oath to reclaim our homeland! We'll set foot on Ala Mhigan soil again─together─or not at all! Do you understand me!?
Yes, sir...
Good. Let us return to our brothers. Oh, and don't even think that you'll get off lightly. As soon as you're healed, I'll give you such a thorough thrashing, you'll wish we didn't find you!
I can't thank you enough for saving Gallien. I will see you back at Quarrymill.
Gallien's expected to make a full recovery. We'll linger here till he's strong enough to take to the road again. As much as I mislike this place, beggars can't be choosers.
Now that things are relatively settled, I seem to recall that you wanted something of me.
You've proven a true friend to my people. Ask of me anything, and it's yours, so long as it's mine to give.
The cooperation of the people of Little Ala Mhigo? That's all? Far be it from me to question your desires, of course... Very well, I will provide you with a letter to show to Gundobald.
The old bear was my mentor when I first joined the Resistance. He's intimidating to those who don't know him, but he takes care of his own. I've no doubt that he will do all in his power to aid you.
Why have you returned? You are not welcome here; I thought I made that clear.
You...you spoke with Meffrid? It has been so long since I last heard from him, I had feared him dead... Twelve be praised...
Whoever you are, Meffrid sees you as a friend, and any friend of Meffrid is a friend of mine. I know of this masked stranger you seek, and will tell you what I can.
An outsider resembling your masked stranger has reportedly been appearing near Little Ala Mhigo of late. What's more, it seems that some of our youngbloods are meeting him in secret.
No doubt you'll want to question them about their trysts, but they are not like to yield the information readily to an outsider. If you tell them I sent you, though, they may well feel obliged to talk.
