This black stone is remarkable...
I cannot help but wonder if the structures in this part of the ruins were built by a completely different civilization.
It was over a thousand years ago that the giants mined here.
Their records make no mention of glowing stones.
Hmmm...
It harbors high concentrations of aether. And on the surface are what appear to be arcane patterns.
They aren't Allagan or Mhachi or Nymian. If anything, they put me in mind of the calculations of the south sea islanders. But even then...
Seven hells!
What did you do?
N-Nothing...
An earthquake!?
None of this has ever happened before...
A voidgate? Nay... This is...different.
A baby...?
Now hold on... Why would you...
Now what's this?
What is this? Who are you?
Though it never opened again, Galuf continued to study the gate for years after that, hopin' to learn somethin' of value.
All he could conclude was that it was built with unknown technology, and that it led to another world. One apart from the void.
We'd assumed the ruins themselves were the golden city, only to discover that the real prize actually lay beyond the gate─and beyond our reach.
Couldn't make head nor tail of the artifact either.
As it had similar properties to the black stone in the ruins, we were convinced it was important, so Gulool Ja Ja took it to the palace for safekeepin'.
Galuf, meanwhile, took the baby with him back to Sharlayan and raised her as his own.
Then the child was...
The earring inside the letter to my grandfather... It was apparently found amongst my swaddling clothes.
If this is true, then it means that you hail from another reflection...
So it would seem. I still struggle to take it all in myself.
Looking back, Grandfather was always quick to seek distractions whenever I broached the subject. But never would I have guessed anything like this...
But enough about me. We have more pressing matters.
The forces that assailed Tuliyollal─you suspect they are somehow connected to the golden city?
Thinking back on it, the soldiers looked like they could've been made from the same black stone.
And leadin' them was Zoraal Ja... His involvement also lends weight to the theory.
On the day of the succession ceremony, a bandit took me unawares and knocked me out.
When I came to, I found my home turned upside down, with a few particular items missin'.
Namely, the keystones I was entrusted with for my role as watcher of the gate.
The bandit─you believe that it was...?
I only got a glimpse of 'em, but aye. It was a blue-scaled Hoobigo. I know of no other.
The artifact stored at the palace was also stolen. The thief struck during the ceremony, when the guard was spread thin.
So our assumption is Zoraal Ja somehow opened that gate to another reflection, where he acquired advanced technology and his mechanical army?
It fits. And if he did, then it's also likely that the dome is a product of this unknown reflection.
Hold on. We've been going on and on about reflections, but what of my home? What's become of it?
Indeed. Where it concerns other realities, I daresay the Scions are best suited to tackle the task.
You can say that again! We've been to the literal edge of existence. Some mysterious giant dome shouldn't scare us!
As you know, our order has ostensibly disbanded. We'd thank you to be discreet about our unofficial reunion.
Worry not, we'll spare no effort to get to the bottom of this. And with our hero eager to help, you can be confident of the results!
I'm coming with you. If that's where my brother is, then that's where I must go.
I can't say I understand everything you're discussing, but I know what I have to do.
I have to put a stop to Zoraal Ja, and restore the people's happiness!
Suffice it to say I share Lamaty'i's desire to join you. However, under these circumstances, it would be unwise for both Vows to be absent from the city.
As such, I shall remain in Tuliyollal.
Come what may, I will protect our nation. So go forth, Sister, and do what you must.
Thank you.
It may be prudent for us to likewise divide our forces. While one group ventures into the dome, the other keeps guard without.
Agreed. There's something I wish to investigate out here, so I will remain.
I as well. The enemy's warships still loom overhead, and I would see that we're prepared for the worst.
I wish to go to the dome.
As a Student, I have an obligation to investigate this potential threat to the world.
But I'd be lying if I said I'm not deathly curious about my origins. If there's aught to be learned, then I want to learn it.
In that case, please let me come too.
I have to see what's become of my home. I may not be a fighter, but I know those lands like the back of my hand. I can guide you.
If you hadn't offered, I would've asked. We're counting on you!
I'm not one for waiting around, so if it's all the same to you, I'll join the dome crew.
You should accompany them, G'raha. I expect your knowledge and experience will be useful.
In the meantime, I intend to learn what I can about the gate, and will keep you apprised of my findings. Pray do the same.
Assuming communication is possible from inside the dome, we'll maintain contact and share any developments.
It seems our teams are assembled. A fine roster, I think.
Looks good to me. We'll find a way to deal with the threat─for the sake of Tural!
It's truly heartening to have you at our side for this. Thank you, everyone.
Now, before we set off, there's one thing I need to do. The people are still shaken by the attack, and I'd like to reassure them as best I can.
Another reflection encroaches upon our own, but how, and why now?
I struggle to believe I am from another reflection. I wonder, does this mean my soul is thinner than a native of the Source?
Surely not. Y'shtola would have noticed. Gods, there's so much I don't understand, my head is ripe to burst...
This talk of reflection is perplexing, to say the least. I should be glad for your help in understanding and overcoming this crisis.
I fear we need to know more if we're to defend against another assault.
I'm indebted to Ojika for overseeing our operations in my absence. I will endeavor to make myself as useful as I can here.
It's embarrassin' to think how Zoraal Ja caught me unawares, but I've no doubt the bastard came to kill me. I reckon he would've succeeded were it anyone else.
Who would've thought him takin' that key would lead to all this?
Please be safe...
We'll find a way to breach the dome, and we'll make sure everyone inside is safe.
I know what I have to do now.
I know we're in a hurry to set off. But before we do, I need to address my people.
The peace we swore to uphold has been shattered. They need to understand what's happened and how we intend to fix it.
So I want to call an assembly at the Winged Walk and assure them that all will be well.
But as shaken as they are, I don't know how many will come...
It's those who are most distressed that truly need hear your words...
If you like, I shall seek out such souls and encourage them to attend.
I'll help too. This is an important step in the city's recovery.
Care to join us, Forename?
While you handle that, Erenville and I will see to provisions for the expedition.
Thank you... I'll go ahead and have the Landsguard announce the address. People must first know there's going to be one before they can decide whether or not they want to hear it.
If you could see to the Resplendent Quarter and Bayside Bevy, Alisaie and I will split the rest of the city between us.
I have a mind to inform Thancred and Urianger as well, but they may have already left Tural.
I shall have to examine one of these mechanical soldiers later.
