You seem surprised. Did you not cross our gates in search of blood?
Come hither, children of the dawn. The undying master will drink deep tonight!
Welcome back, Forename! I'm reliably informed that your foray into the Deepcroft was a success.
Nor did I expect anything less. Baderon's ringing endorsement left me in little doubt as to your capabilities. Even so, you are to be commended.
Nor did I expect anything less. You've made such a habit of succeeding that it's difficult not to take your talents for granted. Rest assured, however: Mother is impressed, even if she isn't surprised.
Bowlord Lewin asked me to pass on his thanks.
I must say, it's something of a relief to be able to call upon such a capable adventurer.
Sadly, death has become an ever more common occurrence within our fraternity of late. Times being what they are, the guild is constantly inundated with petitions, and we are hard-pressed to find enough hands to deal with them all.
While this means no shortage of work for able souls such as yourself, it also provides ample opportunity for the inexperienced to overreach themselves─with predictable consequences. Ah...as if to illustrate the point...
Avere's gone, and it's all your fault! If it hadn't taken you an age to heal him, he would still be alive!
<sniff> B-But I tried! He bolted out of range before I could finish the spell!
<sob> He shouldn't have been so hard-pressed in the first place... We should've done more to lighten his burden...
Bah! To the hells with this pathetic excuse for a party! I'm leaving, and it'd be too soon if I never see your faces again! Good-bye, and good riddance!
I'm leaving as well. I doubt this comes as any surprise, but I never liked you. I only suffered you for your healing, but you couldn't even do that one thing right. Cruel though this may sound, you brought this upon yourself.
Oh, and by way of some parting advice...get rid of Avere's head! Bury it, cremate it, do whatever the hells you like with it─but for gods' sakes, stop carrying it around! It's...it's just... Just get rid of it, all right!?
W-Wait! Don't leave me alone! Please!
<sob> I'm so sorry, Avere... Please forgive me...
Scenes like this have become all too common. That makes a dozen times in half as many days...
Now you see why I'm grateful for adventurers of your experience. I can send women like you on a mission without worrying that you might not return─well, not so much, at any rate.
Speaking of missions, I would entrust you with another.
About a bell ago, I received a message from my counterpart in Ul'dah. She seeks the services of a reliable adventurer, and you are nothing if not reliable.
If you think you might be interested in this task, say the word, and I will be glad to share the details with you.
So, you're not averse to taking a little trip? Wonderful!
As I mentioned earlier, the request comes to us from the Adventurers' Guild in Ul'dah. Once you arrive, seek out Momodi, the proprietress of the Quicksand. Think of her as the sultanate's version of myself.
Chances are she'll send you into the midst of danger, but I have every confidence that you will pull through unscathed. Now, off you go, Forename, and good luck!
Welcome to the Quicksand, friend. I'm a tad busy right now, if you wouldn't mind showin' yourself to─
Judgin' by your determined expression, I take it you ain't here for ale. Are you called Forename Surname, by any chance?
Oh, it's you, Forename! And there I was, spoutin' the same tired line!
Miounne sent word that you'd be reportin' for duty. She also made a point of callin' you the adventurer of the moment. That ain't no small praise, comin' from her.
But you didn't come all the way here to listen to my prattle. Doubtless you're eager to get started, so let's talk business, shall we?
The petitioner ought to be arrivin' any moment now...
Gods almighty! Another second under that sun, and I would have been set afire! A tankard of ale, if you would be so kind!
Excellent timin', Papashan. It just so happens the adventurer who'll be handlin' your petition is here.
So this winsome lass is the much-lauded adventurer, is she? Marvelous, marvelous!
A pleasure to make your acquaintance, milady. I am Papashan, formerly of the Sultansworn. I thank you for agreeing to lend us your aid.
Oh? Why, if it isn't my good friend Forename!
It does my spirit well to know that you are the one who will be helping us.
Mayhap you'd like to apprise Forename of her mission?
Yes, of course. The petition in question was submitted by an acquaintance of mine at Amajina & Sons Mineral Concern. It relates to an unfortunate development at Copperbell Mines.
To be plain, giants have seized control of the place.
These giants are of the clan known as the hecatoncheires─fearsome creatures who were sealed within the deepest depths of the mines during the bygone Thorne Dynasty.
Alas, it seems they have managed to break through the layer of rock which served to imprison them, and now prowl the tunnels where the miners ply their trade. The creatures are justifiably angry about their treatment at the hands of our ancestors, and their presence has forced the suspension of all mining activities on the site.
It's no wonder they're angry. Didn't the Thorne Dynasty come to an end over three hundred years ago?
You know your history well, milady.
The people of that age used the hecatoncheires to work their mines. By way of enchanted helms, they were able to bind the ferocious creatures to their will. But as is oft the way in such tales, these enchantments eventually failed, and the slaves rose up against their masters.
In a desperate bid to contain the unbridled fury of the hecatoncheires, our ancestors induced the collapse of the mines' lowermost levels. So it was that the Great Giant Revolt was ended─buried beneath a hundred thousand tonzes of rock.
Well, now...that's got me thinkin'... I seem to recall there bein' an article about Copperbell in the Mythril Eye a fortnight or so ago.
It said the mines were bein' reopened so as to meet the risin' demand for buildin' materials. Like as not, our boys dug a bit too deep and freed the giants.
Gods...to think the poor creatures are still alive an' kickin' after three centuries... That's a long time to nurse a grudge. They must be seethin'...
Indeed. And that makes them a danger to us all. There will be no mining at Copperbell so long as they remain. For the sake of both peace and prosperity, they must be subdued. This is the task which we would have you undertake.
I'll not deny that the mission will be rife with danger, but our need is great. And so I beg you: put an end to this sorry business.
Gods bless you! I feared you might have reservations, but I assure you it is for the best.
Hmmm... In case you don't know, Copperbell Mines are in western Thanalan. Do take care, you hear?
Ah, and one last thing before you depart... An employee of Amajina & Sons is presently at the Quicksand. The fellow's name is Painted Mesa, and he knows Copperbell Mines well. It may behoove you to seek his counsel.
