Welcome, misssir. Care to peruse today's selection?
This shop sells food. Those are the items on the counter.
That's food!? I can't imagine what they taste like...
<chuckle> I thought you might be surprised.
Your countrymen were too in the beginning.
Come, you must sample something. Choose one and I will purchase it.
Welcome, friends! How lucky you are for Her Majesty to treat you!
The five items on display are our most popular. I recommend one of them if this is your first time.
The synthetic fruit pellets? They're our best approximation of the taste and texture of grape.
I've never tried the real fruit so I can't say how faithful they are, but there's no denying their popularity.
While they're all very tempting...
I'm going to have the steak. I'm absolutely starving!
Ah, the revivifying tonic. I take it you're thirsty.
The flavor is a sublime blend of sweet and salty, and it stays fresh for over ten years thanks to the special container.
While they're all very tempting...
I'm going to have the steak. I'm absolutely starving!
Keen on the perfect meal bar, are you? It's all the nutrients your body needs packed into a single foodstuff.
The flavor is formulated to never taste dull, and one bar will satisfy you for a whole day. Many folks prefer this to taking multiple meals.
While they're all very tempting...
I'm going to have the steak. I'm absolutely starving!
Ah yes, the salad paste. This is designed for those who are concerned about their figure. With its blend of nine varieties of vegetables, it'll help your efforts to slim down.
Fashion models swear by it, and youths can't get enough of the stuff either.
While they're all very tempting...
I'm going to have the steak. I'm absolutely starving!
This here is cultivated steak. It's not quite the same as the real thing they produce in the outskirts, but it's a sight more affordable.
This particular product is known as “gold label,” and it's a delicious hybrid of beef and chicken grown at the plant on the fourth level.
While they're all very tempting...
I'm going to have the steak like you, Forename. I'm absolutely starving!
Thank you for your custom. This being Her Majesty's treat, it's bound to taste all the better!
Say, would you mind sampling your selections here and now? It's been a long time since we had newcomers, and I'd love to see your reactions!
This is a great chance to learn about Alexandrian culture, Forename. Let's dig in!
Alright, here I go!
Alright, here I go!
A-Amazing! I've never had any meat like this before!
It's tender like chicken but flavorsome like rroneek, and the spices give it just the right amount of kick. I could eat this every day!
Hah, don't mind them. They're just happy to see your honest reaction.
And how about you?
Hahaha! It's always such a pleasure! My thanks for humoring me.
This does take me back. Though it was chaotic when the people of Tuliyollal first arrived, we endeavored to learn about one another and embraced our differences.
Ah, right! What about you, Sphene? Aren't you having something to eat too?
I appreciate the thought, but I'm fine for now, thank you.
Alright. But what's your favorite food, if you don't mind me asking?
My...favorite food?
...Why do you wish to know this?
Because I want to get to know you better. Why else?
The more you know someone, the more you grow fond of them.
That's what my old man believed, and my experiences have led me to believe the same.
My favorite food...
Hm...
...Is it such a difficult question?
I'm sorry. It's just...when I think of those who labor to bring us the food, I find I can't settle on one thing...
Hahaha! I thought I was indecisive, but you're something else!
Indecisive...? Perhaps I am...but you didn't need to laugh about it...
My favorite food... That is a question I may never be able to answer.
I don't know about you, but I'm satisfied. Let's keep moving!
Very well. Next, I was thinking of showing you the residential sector, but it's in part so I can tend to personal matters.
It's a visitation, to be precise...and I believe it will be educational for you as well. Would the two of you mind accompanying me?
Not at all!
Wonderful. Let me know when you have seen enough here, and we'll make our way.
I was just wondering what kind of homes they have here.
Ready? Then let's head to the residential sector. It lies to the southwest.
As we walk, I would be glad to tell you about any places of interest that we come upon.
That meat was sooo good... I have to get everyone at home to try it!
Have things you need to tend to? Alright, we'll look for you back at that arcade after you're done.
All sorted? Then let's get moving.
Lamaty'i trusts you without question. How nice it would be to have such a friend.
Of course. Take your time─we shall await you back at the Nexus Arcade.
Welcome back. If you are ready, then let us resume the tour.
This is Mosaic, a café. Here you can buy drinks to enjoy while you relax.
I see. In Tuliyollal, there's a similar establishment called Xbalyav Ty'e─that's “seashell” in the local tongue. Is there a story behind the name Mosaic?
There is. In our continent, the races are named for stones. There's the Hyune, who resemble some Tonawawta; the tall and graceful Eldite; and the dimunitive and affable Milalla.
When they all gather here, they appear as a mosaic of colors. Thus did the founder choose to name the café.
Heh, that's nice. If they served tacos here, it'd be perfect!
Tacos...?
A traditional Turali dish, and one of my favorite foods. You must try it one day!
Oh...uh, yes. Definitely!
We'll make it happen once we've restored peace to Tuliyollal. Right, let's continue on!
Let's go for some tacos at Xbalyav Ty'e, the three of us!
Have you eaten these...tacos before? For Lamaty'i to recommend them so highly, they must be delicious indeed.
And here we are. These buildings are where our citizens live.
They're massive! Each one is bigger than the palace!
They have to be, for just about all Alexandrians have apartments here.
Lest you wonder, I'm here to visit some people. Their apartment is in the building on the left here at residential radius 9-14.
Residential...radius?
That's right. Come, the door opens automatically.
You really get the sense that Sphene loves her nation, don't you?
I do hope you like the district. The people worked hard to build it, paying attention to every little detail.
This is the lobby, a common area for residents.
I see... And what does that machine there do?
Ah, the concierge. They look after the residents. If you require assistance or have questions, they would be glad to assist.
Is that so? I've no shortage of questions, but I'll direct them at you for now.
By all means. You may consider me your personal concierge!
Hey, Sphene. Can anyone live in this place?
Naturally! In fact, many of your countrymen make their homes here.
No matter your origin or race, occupation or regulator usage, all Alexandrian citizens are eligible for an apartment. This includes those you met who work in the outskirts.
You've taken care of everyone for thirty years. I'm truly grateful.
This is the place. A mother and son live here.
Hello, Isadora!
