Meddlesome fools! You know not whom you face!
Hearken to me, denizen of the abyss!Slay these interlopers and feast upon their souls!
Is that a voidsent!?
Yield or be slain, thief! I will not ask again!
Master Papashan! But why...? How...?
The General saw you sneak into the vaults, Owyne.
He suspected something was afoot and ordered us to keep an eye on you.
The Flame General...? He ordered you to look after me?
Master Papashan! More of them to the north!
After them, Sultansworn─they have the crown! This lot sought only to delay us!
Let us speak again back in the city!
The source of her strength becomes clear...
You may have bested the golem, but you will not fare so well this day.
O mournful voice of creation! Send unto me a creature of the abyss, my thrall to command, that I may smite mine enemies!
Your very being imperils the plan. You cannot be suffered to live.
Soon, you shall take your vile gifts to the grave!
Mwahahaha! Writhe as the venom eats its way through your veins!
Whence springs this preternatural might!?
You certainly have a knack for getting into trouble!
An unwelcome guest. No matter, all shall fall before me!
No mortal should possess such strength!
Keep it up, Forename! We almost have him!
Unnngh... That the wisdom of the Paragons should be brought low...by mere mortals...
Paragons? This is indeed a disturbing revelation...
We had long suspected the involvement of the Bringers of Chaos─Ascians, to give them their true name.
But we could not be sure they were responsible for the recent disturbances until now. As if the sultanate needed any more enemies...
Hm? Have we Sharlayans crossed paths with Ascians before? Well, we've certainly─ Wait. I don't recall telling you about my homeland.
Ah, yes, that's right─you're one of the gifted.
You know, this marks the third time I've found you in the midst of trouble. If I didn't know any better, I'd say you're a lodestone for it!
Anyway, I'm glad I started following you around. Who knows what grand conspiracy you'll stumble upon next!?
I jest, I jest... Had I truly been watching your every move, I wouldn't have taken so long to intervene in your latest altercation.
But all's well that ends well, eh? Our masked friend is no more, and while I very much doubt we've seen the last of his kind, his demise will likely grant us at least some respite. And on that note, I must away. Until next time, Forename.
Everyone is waiting for you, adventurer.
Pray do not keep my comrades waiting.
You have my thanks, Forename, for helping to defend Her Grace's good name, and for sparing the Sultansworn further dishonor. I believe Master Papashan would like to thank you personally.
Does it surprise you to see me dressed so, Forename? I was once a Sultansworn, you know, though it's been fifteen years since I put down my sword, and took up the role of stationmaster.
It is a capacity in which I am no less proud to serve, lest you doubt. Whenever Her Grace ventures outside the gates, I have the honor of protecting her person.
Never before had I seen her so despondent as when news of the crown's theft reached her ears.
But thanks to your valiant efforts, she is returned to her former vibrant self. You have the gratitude of every Sultansworn, Forename.
