Clamorous creatures... Why have they summoned me? And what strange land is this?
Ahhh, the Chosen King, Noctis. So that is the way of it.
Yours was the presence that drew me hither.
Very well. Take up your weapon, Chosen King, and face me. We shall see if you are worthy of my power.
Alright, Forename, it's time to put your new power to use.
You'll get the hang of it in no time. We'll warp circles around Garuda!
Get ready, Forename! We warp in to strike together!
Now!
No good─we gotta strike at the same time. Follow my lead!
Yeah, that's what I call teamwork! Keep it up!
Nice!
Nailed it!
How's that!?
Something big's comin'! Quick, get clear!
Running's too slow! Warp to the pillar!
Son of a─! Hang on, Forename!
I'll take it from here!
Of all the places...
You pack a serious punch, Forename. I'm impressed.
The Crystal has chosen well indeed. I acknowledge your strength, Noctis. Yours and your companion's both.
Man, what is it with gods and trials? Do you always have to be so skeptical?
So it is decreed. At the world's peril do we grant our power unto the untested.
Apologies for the delay!
She's unlike anything I've seen before, so it took me a while to get acquainted, but the Regalia is as good as new.
Seriously? I owe you big time!
Noctis. There is much you have left undone on Eos.
Your presence here is an anchor, allowing me to link the two worlds. For you, I shall open the way.
Tarry not, for the gate cannot remain for long.
Got it. Thanks.
Divinities... One minute they're trying to kill you, the next they're helping you. I'll never understand them.
Thanks for the company, Forename. It was nice going around with you.
Yeah, definitely. We gotta hang out again.
You bet I will. And when everything's sorted, maybe we can hang out again.
Well, I better get moving. I've got a promise to keep, after all. Take care, now!
Before Noctis went into the portal, I could've sworn I saw a woman amidst the light. An ethereal beauty dressed all in white.
I saw her too. It seemed to me she was waiting for Noctis. Guiding him. I can only assume they share a deep bond.
Oh! Then perhaps that was his fiancée!
Perhaps so...and perhaps not. The sole person who could've enlightened us has vanished into the light.
Well, whoever and wherever Noctis's fiancée may be, I do hope they are reunited.
Right! While events are still fresh in my mind, I shall return to my office and put pen to parchment. Master Cid, many thanks for your cooperation!
But the most thanks of all, I reserve for you, my dear adventurer. In no small part due to your help, Noctis managed to find his way home, and my article can reach a climactic conclusion. See that you do not miss it!
A strangely charismatic young man, was Noctis... In the end, we never learned the circumstances of his coming here.
But if he has things he must do back home, as that Garuda-like being said, perhaps this was a trial that he had to overcome along his journey.
At any rate, old friend, I believe our work here is done. Wherever the long road may lead him, may Noctis ever ride in the light of the Crystal.
