Lady Y'shtola! Lady Surname!
A thousand pardons for this extreme discourtesy! I was wholly unaware of your true identity, madam! Had I known, I would never have permitted my man to subject you to such unspeakable ordeals!
Come now, she must have sensed something was amiss.
You didn't seriously think I would send you running the length and breadth of Eorzea for a banquet, did you?
Spare her your mockery, Captain. Your intent was unclear to me until this moment. And unlike me, Forename has no knowledge of your traditions. Mayhap you would be so good as to enlighten her.
Aye, aye...fair's fair. There's no sense hiding it any longer.
We five were chosen by our brothers and sisters, and before the Company of Heroes disbanded, we each swore a solemn oath...
That any who would follow in our footsteps must be weighed and measured─not by their reputation, but by their deeds.
Each man would judge these would-be god-slayers by his own criteria. If even one found her wanting, she would be rejected without a second thought.
But if she proved herself worthy, we swore that we would do our utmost to support her cause.
The world has ever been full of brave souls eager to give their lives for a righteous cause, but all too few capable of making a difference with their sacrifice. To send wave after wave of hapless adventurers into the jaws of a foe against whom they have no hope of victory is worse than futile. Titan is not one to be challenged lightly, and we will not be complicit in the deaths of the unworthy.
Which is why the five of you deigned to test Forename with such commendable thoroughness. Time well spent, I am sure. But tell us, Captain: what is the assessment of you and your fellows?
She's a brave one, that much is certain. She willingly walked into the midst of danger, despite my repeated warnings that it could cost her her life.
Her skill is undeniable. She stalked her prrrey as relentlessly as any child of the sands, and struck with precision when an opportunity presented itself.
Too many adventurers these days care only for fortune and glory. Forename, however, is a kind and generous soul. I am certain she has no shortage of loyal allies who will gladly fight at her side.
Pshhh... Shkohhh...Wily uplander is talentful plansmaker. Tricksy foe for mighty rockman!
I can only concur with my colleagues' assessments.
We five of the Company of Heroes hereby judge you a worthy challenger. Cast down the Lord of Crags, Forename Surname, and write a new chapter in the history of Eorzea.
With the formalities out of the way, let the festivities begin! Summon the dancers, pour the wine!
Eat, drink, and be merry, my friends, for today we celebrate the birth of a new legend─Forename Surname, Titan's Bane!
