Halone's blessings be upon you, miss. I─ A gift? For me?
This scent...how reminiscent of a wine once made by a dear old friend, may her soul rest in peace...
Forsaken by her family, she toiled tirelessly to feed and clothe her child. Yet somehow she found time to help me tend to those in even worse circumstances, so compassionate she was, so full of love for her fellow man.
'Twas that love which gave her child strength to endure the scorn of the other younglings... <sigh> That little girl, bless her heart, she couldn't help what she was. Eventually, she won them over, but those first few years were trying─even more so when she had to start fending for herself.
I remember days she spent standing on the walls─raven black hair flowing in the wind, staring out, as if searching for her mother's face in the mists...
...She was a remarkable woman, Forename.
After everything she was forced to endure, she still remained hopeful for the future. For her daughter's future...
Some bonds are thicker than blood...but blood still defines us─and divides us in the end.
It's the legacy of our parents, Forename, and we can't escape it, no matter how hard we try.
So the Mongrel and her pups chose to embrace theirs─to proclaim it to all and sundry.
If you can understand that, then maybe you can find her on your own.
Still looking for your mongrel? Like I said before, take your pick. Plenty around, if you know where to look. Or did you fancy someone specific?
Ho, someone's got unusual tastes. Afraid I can't help you, though.
Won't, rather. It's bloody obvious you ain't of the Brume. Did you think I'd just tell you 'cause you asked nicely?
Doesn't ring a bell, sorry.
What, coeurl got your tongue? Off you trot, then.
Have you made any progress, Forename?
Hmm... So our mongrel was born of an Elezen nobleman and a Hyuran maidservant.
Granted, it is no location, but it is far more information than we had before. Yes...now that her striking features are known to us, mayhap we need only remain vigilant.
There must be a way we can draw the Mongrel out into the open. Hmm... Mayhap we should discuss this with Tataru.
Speaking of which, where is Tataru? She... Oh, confound it. She went below to make inquiries on her own, didn't she? We must find her quickly, Forename─I have a premonition this is not going to end well.
She must be around here somewhere... I take it you've had no luck either?
Uwaaah! I'm sorry, forget I said anything!
Wait─down there! Isn't that Tataru?
<gasp> Those men are chasing her! Quickly, Forename─after them!
