What is it? I am a busy woman, so be quick about it. If you wish to place an order, speak with Randall....Hm? Here to retrieve an order? For Mistress Tataru, you say?
You come at a good time─I finished it but moments ago. It was no small coup working it to her specifications, but I did it nonetheless. Payment has already been settled.
However did that girl come by chimerical hide, anyway? You need either balls of steel or a bottomless coinpurse, and it seemed to me she had neither.
Greetings, Forename. I trust you have been well. Is there aught you require of me?
Ah, yes, Mistress Tataru's order. As requested, it has been sanctified in the sight of the elementals.
I know not what she intends for the staff, but it is a most singular artifact. Even one possessed of my experience would struggle to wield it.
Ah, you're back! You have the items, I hope?
...Oooh, it's precisely as I requested─a perfect match for the other pieces! Truly, Geva is a master among masters!
And the staff completes the surprise! Thank you so much, Forename!
Tee hee, I can't wait to see what Y'shtola thinks of the surprise!
Lest you wonder, she's doing very well, and the conjurers have left her in her sister's care. Let's go and pay them a visit, shall we?
Y'shtola! I'm so glad you're back!
Tataru...
You are safe... Thank the Twelve.
Something has changed about you, Alphinaud. Or mayhap the change is with me? I seem to sense the aether around me more keenly than before.
I am pleased to see you well again. Do you feel strong enough to talk?
Worry not. I am well enough.
Tell us, then─what befell you after you fled the feast? We were told that there had been a tunnel collapse.
That was my doing. I brought the tunnel down that you and Minfilia might escape.
At the last moment, I invoked a teleportation magick in hopes of spiriting Thancred away, at least. Needless to say, it did not go quite as planned, and I found myself adrift in the Lifestream.
The others─where are they? Did they not escape?
They remain unaccounted for. You are the only one we have been able to find.
I am truly sorry. It was the Crystal Braves who pursued you that day─my hubris that led to our undoing.
No apologies are necessary, Alphinaud─you are not to blame for what occurred. Know that were our comrades here, they would commend you for keeping the light of hope alive.
Don't...don't worry! The others are alive and well, I'm sure of it! We just need to find them!
Indeed, Tataru. Let us find our friends and rebuild the Scions.
Ha! There is the Alphinaud I remember─and I feel much the better for his return! 'Tis time I arose!
That reminds me! I have a change of clothes for you! I don't like to boast, but I made them myself. I learned how to weave while we were in Ishgard, you see.
Tataru has apprised me of all that took place in the aftermath of the assassination plot. It would seem I have been away for some while.
Yes, much and more happened during your absence. At present, we seek to follow the archbishop to Azys Lla.
And you want for some manner of aetheric ram to pierce the floating isle's protective barrier.
We do. Might you be able to furnish us with one?
A means to prise open a hole in an Allagan barrier─and one large enough to admit an airship, no less... Hm... Nay. I lack the knowledge to devise such a weapon.
...But I know of one who could.
A leading figure in the field of aetheric research, and one of the finest scholars ever to grace Sharlayan─Matoya, my former master.
In my youth, I had the honor of studying under Matoya. In the field of aetheric research, she was without rival.
I have no doubt that her knowledge will be of aid to our cause. The question is, will she share it with us? My master has ever been willful─the gods forbid anyone disagrees with her.
When the Garlean Empire first marched upon Eorzea some fifteen years ago, the denizens of Sharlayan were summoned back to the motherland.
However, Matoya refused to join the exodus. To this day, she lives a hermit's life on the fringes of the abandoned city.
So it is to the Dravanian hinterlands that we must go. To the place of my birth...
Though Alisaie and I were born in Sharlayan, our days there were short. We remained only until the exodus, and I have not returned since.
Oh, so it's to be a homecoming, then? As fine a reason as any to go to Sharlayan, and it would afford us the opportunity to pay my master a visit.
Ahem. I believe you have mistaken our primary objective, Y'shtola. At any rate, the journey will take us through largely unknown territory. Let us first return to Ishgard and make our preparations.
Sharlayan is situated in the Dravanian hinterlands.
To get there, we must strike west and traverse the breadth of the Dravanian forelands. Make no mistake, it will be a grueling journey.
The party shall be comprised of Forename, Y'shtola, and myself. Tataru, pray remain in Ishgard and continue the search for our missing friends.
Yes, sir!
First, let us make for Tailfeather.
A long soak in the Lifestream followed by a long journey... I would not recommend it to anyone.
But rest assured my strength is returning to me. I shall be back to my former self ere long.
I believe I am sufficiently rested. Let us continue west to Sharlayan.
Once we descend the mountain path, we will arrive at the Dravanian hinterlands. From there, it is but a short distance to the city.
Be warned that we shall be passing through Gnath territory. We must needs be wary of them and the dragons both.
To the Thaliak River, whereto the melted snows of Abalathia's Spine eventually find their way by means of a thousand silver streams...
Whose waters have long nourished the Dravanian hinterlands, and so provided for a settlement of learned souls from across the northern seas...
To the city of Sharlayan, that great seat of knowledge, now abandoned by her keepers, they came.
Matoya dwells on the far side of the Thaliak River. Let us search for a crossing.
“Knowledge Seeks No Man”... So says the motto of Sharlayan engraved upon yonder stone. The meaning is simple: it falls to us to seek enlightenment.
During the Sixth Astral Era, at the turn of the thirteenth century, men from the northern nation of Sharlayan journeyed across the seas to Eorzea in search of knowledge.
Upon arriving at these shores, they established a camp for their scholarly endeavors. Over time, this camp grew into a settlement, and the settlement prospered, and so much so that it came to be counted amongst Eorzea's great city-states.
Alas, those glory days are now but a fading memory. With her keepers lost to her, Sharlayan has become an empty husk of her former self.
