For Nabaath Areng, airship is best. Nothing is faster than an airship!
The Eulmorans have one, I hear. You can ask them to take you!
The Eulmorans have one, I hear. You can ask them to take you!
Ah, Forename. I'm afraid I've learned little of use about how to reach Nabaath Areng. The Eulmoran presence, though─that's another matter.
Apparently, though their army is definitely in Amh Araeng, there have been no sightings of Eulmorans at all in the Hills of Amber. Perhaps we can take that as a sign that Alisaie's plan has borne fruit.
Did you have any better luck finding us a route forward?
So these are our options... Well, what do you think?
I'd rather not, if it's all the same to you. If it went poorly, we couldn't simply wave our hands and vanish into the aether like Y'shtola─not that I would recommend it, even if we could.
Hmm... We could perhaps use amaro, but even from a distance, I can't imagine that the Eulmoran Army wouldn't spot us if we were to travel by air.
It does seem to be the least risky of our options, and I can't imagine one gate is enough to thwart you.
I'd rather not, if it's all the same to you. If it went poorly, we couldn't simply wave our hands and vanish into the aether like Y'shtola─not that I would recommend it, even if we could.
Oh, valued customers! Were the other Mord of help?
Of a fashion. They told us of a trolley that runs to Nabaath Areng, at least...
But am I correct in thinking that there was a reason you did not do so yourself, when first we asked?
Mm, yes... The gate, you see. It is impassable.
Before, there was a hulking thing of stone─the Talos. It opened the gate, they say.
But none operate such a thing now. I do not even know if it yet exists.
I do not know, but... You should travel east to Mount Biran Mines! That is where the trolley controls stand.
I still see miners there from time to time. If anyone knows what happened to the Talos...
...It would be them! Thank you, you've been a great help!
We're off to Mount Biran, then. Let's hope that someone will be there to answer our questions.
The scale of the track is impressive, I'll give them that. Now we only need follow it until we come to the mines.
Bit of a mess, isn't it? But the mechanisms for dispatching the trolley are here, just as Zhun Zun said.
Unfortunately, anyone who might know how to use them is not. We might wait for Zhun Zun's mysterious miners to appear, or have a look around and see if we can deduce anything useful in their absence. I'm in favor of the latter.
Something near the entrance to the mines proper caught Urianger's eye. Meet us there if you find anything.
Something near the entrance to the mines proper caught Urianger's eye. Meet us there if you find anything.
Something near the entrance to the mines proper caught Urianger's eye. Meet us there if you find anything.
Something near the entrance to the mines proper caught Urianger's eye. Meet us there if you find anything.
Ah, Forename. What hast thou discerned?
I see... Indeed, thine observations are consistent with mine own.
But let us refrain from further discussion ere our comrades arrive...
Ample evidence of recent maintenance, and lukewarm tea besides...
The levers for switching tracks looked like they were in good condition, though I couldn't move them myself. No ordinary person could, I think...
It is my belief that no person is meant to.
This “Talos” beareth more than a passing resemblance to golems of the Source...
Nor doth it appear to be the sole example of its kind. The proliferation of Talos fragments, as well as the enormity of the mechanisms here, suggest a considerable number were once in operation.
Alas, this specimen and its fellows now lie lifeless and broken, and I know not how to repair them that they might facilitate our passage through the gate.
And without the aid of the Talos, even if thou wert somehow able to unbar the trolley's path, we would still have no means of propelling it.
We might not know how to repair the Talos, but someone must. Otherwise, why keep everything else in working order? Whoever is maintaining the cars and rails must know something that we don't.
Let's ask them what it is, shall we?
Forename, I do believe you'll find a person of some interest skulking in the shadows behind the warehouses on the northwestern side of the tracks.
While you two have a friendly chat, the rest of us will gently encourage those to the south to come out of hiding.
Defend yourselves as necessary, of course, but do try to keep everyone in one piece.
Off we go, then!
