Squawk! What is that thing!? What is that thing!?
It...
It speaks!?
It's heading towards the falls!
I'll stay with the researchers. The creature, I leave to you.
Come, Wuk Lamat!
R-Right!
Just so we're clear, I wasn't startled by the beast earlier. It caught me by surprise, that's all.
Forgive me, but I fail to see a difference.
I-I'm getting hungry. Let's be done with this so we can eat!
Caught me by surprise! Caught me by surprise!
Think you're clever, huh? I'll rip off that beak and roast you on a spit!
Talk all you like, bird! I'm going to have the last laugh!
Oh, I'm going to enjoy sinking my teeth into you!
I'm going to have the last laugh!
Gah! Shut up already, you blasted bird!
Shut up already! Shut up already!
Look out!
I've never seen such an enormous colibri...
Not good... Quickly, gather together!
I...can't move...
I've got you!
Yaaaaaargh!
That was too close...
Steady now.
Dammit!
Spread out, everyone.
You'll pay for that!
Thank you.
Thank you.
What's gotten into this thing!?
Try aiming for its wings!
Hmph, that was hardly a tickle!
Hardly a tickle!
Try this!
Nothing to it.
We have you now, you loud-mouthed bastard!
Loud-mouthed bastard!
Throw everything you have at it!
Hmph, and I had barely limbered up.
It was a terrible foe, but no match for your axe.
O-Only to be expected!
You were pretty impressive yourselves. I was right to invite you on a hunt.
But what a curious bird that was. Though we have similar in Tural, they don't grow so big or use such dirty tricks.
Dirty tricks! Dirty tricks!
Aye, dirty and despicable. Otherwise I could have...easily...
Leave this to me!
Have at you!
Krile?
I am terribly, terribly sorry to have kept you all waiting!
She arrived as I was seeing the researchers to safety. It was all I could do to keep up with her after I explained what happened.
So this is what you meant by seeing to preparations.
After hearing of the contest, I thought how wonderful it would be to join you.
In coming here, I wanted to demonstrate my skill at arms to Wuk Lamat. Alas, it seems I missed most of the action...
That was amazing! The beast didn't stand a chance!
I'm glad to have been of service.
May I ask what inspired this change?
You will recall the time you descended to the aetherial sea in search of Hydaelyn.
Recognizing that my skills were inadequate, I chose to provide support from afar rather than join you.
It was the same when you set forth for Ultima Thule. How it pained me to stay behind, again and again...
That's what inspired this change. Ever since the Final Days were averted, I've used every spare moment to hone my craft.
As you all have adapted your methods to suit the circumstances, I started by considering how I might best contribute.
And after much deliberation, I arrived at my answer...
With the esoteric art passed down by the legendary Archon Relm─pictomancy.
As I recall, you have embraced versatility to effectively complement a certain someone's style.
What I do is much the same. Like you, I don't want to be left behind.
Indeed.
I must say, you appear to be especially keen on being involved in the ritual of succession. Is there any particular reason?
Yes, there is. This letter from Tuliyollal.
It was addressed to my grandfather Galuf, and turned up among the Students' archives.
The ink was faded so I couldn't fully make out the sender's name, a Gulool...someone.
Ja Ja. Gulool Ja Ja. That's my father, the Dawnservant.
What does the letter say?
While much of it isn't legible, it appears to be a request to investigate the golden city.
A request to investigate the golden city...from the Dawnservant himself?
Well, well... Seems it may be more than a rumor after all.
Being a member of the royal family, it was my hope that you could confirm the authenticity of this letter.
I can say for a fact that my father didn't write this.
Given how culturally diverse Tuliyollal is, it was decided some time ago that a common language was needed.
But instead of elevating an existing tongue, and its speakers, above all others, we looked to those widely spoken overseas and created an altogether new one.
These similarities to your common tongue also make it quite easy to communicate in these situations, no?
This letter, however, is entirely in Eorzean. If Father had written this, it would have been in Turali.
What's more, it bears a wax seal. We don't bother with them.
So the letter is fraudulent, then?
Oh, I didn't mean to say that. My father's signature is genuine, as far as I can tell, so perhaps he simply dictated it.
I see... Thank you for the confirmation. It seems my grandfather indeed had dealings with Tuliyollal.
I can't help but be curious as to what exactly he was doing there.
In order to help us decide on a course of action, would you mind if I asked you some questions about your home?
By all means.
After all, learning about one another was the purpose of this hunt.
We can talk while feasting on this fellow. I for one am starving!
We're eating...that?
Ah, what an exciting hunt that was! And now, it's time to savor the reward!
Thanks to Wuk Lamat, we now know who sent the letter to Grandfather, among other things. But many questions still remain...
I understand Krile's feelings all too well. The desire to do one's part. It can be daunting to try and keep up, but nothing will change unless we take the first step.
With the wildlife pacified and the researchers safe, our task is complete.
That just leaves the matter of the colibri meat...
For better or for worse, there's really only one place we can take it to here in Sharlayan: the Last Stand.
Come, let us see what Dickon can cook up for us.
Well now, there's a famished face if I've ever seen one. What can I get you, Forename?
Oho, bird meat from the hunt, you say? Leave it to me─I have just the recipe.
It's a new dish I recently learned from some sailors, and for you lot, it's on the house. Have as much as you like, you hear?
Come, come, let's enjoy the bounty of our first outing together!
I'd heard that Sharlayan cuisine was terrible, but this is fantastic!
What is this? It smells...spicy.
Oh come now, since when did you become so soft? It's not like we don't have spicy food in Tural too!
According to Dickon, intensely hot dishes have become popular in Radz-at-Han after a traveler ordered a curry with several times the usual amount of spice.
So he started offering the same in order to please the growing Hannish population here in Sharlayan.
It's nothing...I can't handle!
Your boorish manners reflect poorly on the both of us. I wish you would consider your station...
I swear, sometimes it feels like you open your mouth only to criticize.
Would I be correct in assuming you've known each other for a long time?
Aye. Thick as thieves since we were little.
I beg to differ. She is a long-standing acquaintance, nothing more.
I see, I see...
All this time, you were from Tural? Would that I had known sooner. There's so much I'd like to ask...
You and everyone else. I've kept it quiet so as to avoid the endless interrogations.
Well, if he's going to be a miser, I'll be happy to tell you about our homeland instead.
Since ancient times, many peoples have called Tural home, and they've been fighting each other for nearly as long.
The fighting finally stopped some eighty years ago, when the reigning Dawnservant unified the disparate communities and founded a new nation.
And that's how Tuliyollal came to be...
Since then, we've enjoyed an era of uninterrupted peace.
But my father is getting old, and he wishes to relinquish the throne to a worthy successor─one who can preserve his legacy.
Including myself, there are four claimants to the throne. But while we all have the right to participate, one among us cannot be allowed to rule.
A man who is too ambitious by half.
Word of the Garlean Empire's collapse has reached Tural.
While most are simply relieved, he sees weakness to exploit, and would lead our armies across the seas on a campaign of conquest.
After everything my father has done to give us peace, he would drag us back into war.
I can't allow it!
No matter what, I must win this contest!
I understand your reasons, but this being an event that will dictate the course of your nation's future, is it appropriate for outsiders like us to be involved?
Oh, it's more than appropriate. The Dawnservant himself expressly encourages it.
The ruler of Tural must navigate the intricacies of myriad cultures, and there's no better way to prove oneself qualified to do so than to work with foreign allies.
That's why I sought you out. Through our hunt, I've confirmed that you're a warrior of considerable skill. But more importantly, one of good character as well.
And so I ask you: will you lend me your strength, and help me win the throne of Tuliyollal?
You don't need to decide right this moment.
But I will need you if I'm to triumph over the competition. I'll stay here as long as I can while waiting for your answer.
In that case, allow us to prepare a room for you at the Baldesion Annex.
That's very kind of you!
Oh, and one more thing... Once we've finished eating, would you mind if I took the rest of the meat?
Judging by Wuk Lamat's reaction, it appears Turali cuisine isn't excessively fiery.
Whether Wuk Lamat has the makings of a ruler, I couldn't say. But I do know that she deeply cares for her nation and her people.
Whether you choose to help her, though, is for you and you alone to decide. Think on it well.
Now then, it's past time I reported our mission's success to the guildship. I would've done so sooner, except Her Highness needed to have her royal meal.
I shall come by the annex later. Till then.
Well, I daresay we now have a fair grasp of Wuk Lamat's situation.
Still, you've been afforded time to consider her invitation. Why not use it to learn more about Tural? Noumenon is bound to have some information on the continent.
Quite right. Not only would it help you to make an informed decision, but if you do choose to go, you would be better prepared for what awaits.
We're talking about mysterious lands and unknown wonders here! I'm confident we'll find reports so thrilling as to drive any thoughts of napping from your mind.
Come, my friend. Let us be off to the archives.
History, geography, botany... The public archives alone should suffice to provide a solid grounding on Tural.
