Must say, this is rather unusual. Not just one, but a whole party of fresh new faces in my tavern.
We but recently arrived in Ishgard and are eager to acquaint ourselves with her more notable establishments, Master...?
Gibrillont─just Gibrillont'll do. And I'm flattered you think so highly of my establishment. Can't promise it'll live up to your expectations, but if it's decent food and drink you're after, you could do much worse.
Judging by the number of customers I see, I suspect your fare is rather more than decent. Speaking of your clientele...I could not help but note a difference between those who frequent the upper and lower floors...
Spotted that, did you? Aye, up here you'll find peddlers, porters, off-duty knights, and so forth, dropping in on their way to or from somewhere else. Regulars maybe, but not locals.
Folks from the Brume, they tend to congregate downstairs, where we offer a menu more suited to their tastes. Cheaper meals, stronger spirits─all quality, mind, but not the sort of stuff I'd recommend to yourselves.
You speak of the lowest levels, yes? Why do they call them the Brume, if I may ask?
'Cause when the weather's foul and the brume rolls in thick, it's the poor sods living at the bottom who have to deal with it.
I see...
...And it's not just the weather. When the wyverns broke through the wards and started tearing up the city, it was the Brume that got the worst of it, while the Pillars enjoyed the protection of the High Houses and the Temple Knights.
More'n a few people are still sore about that, mind, which is why, considering your present company, I'd recommend you keep your wits about you if you mean to go below─and something sharp in your boot, just to be sure.
...I shall take your words to heart, sir.
Master Alphinaud, I think it would be best if we returned to Fortemps Manor.
You go on ahead without me. I'm staying for a drink or two!
M-Miss Tataru...I am afraid that is out of the question! My lord the count would never forgive me if I abandoned one of his charges in such a place─least of all a maiden!
What are you up to, Tataru?
Look around, Alphinaud─this tavern is full of people whose business regularly takes them beyond the Gates of Judgement.
With friends like that, I could practically live here and wait for the newest gossip to come to me.
Indeed. But will you be safe here on your own?
Oh please─do you know how often I looked after the Waking Sands and the Rising Stones by myself? If I had a gil for every unwelcome caller I've driven away, I'd be rich beyond my wildest dreams! I'll be fiiine!
Not that I doubt the lady's knack for fending off unwanted advances, but I'll be damned if I'm going to let anyone lay an unwelcome hand on a patron in my establishment.
That settles it, then. Tataru, Forename and I shall return to the manor for now. Contact me by linkpearl if you require assistance.
I will!
Tell us, then, Master Alphinaud─does Ishgard meet with your expectations?
That which I imagined pales in comparison to the reality. I felt the weight of a thousand years of history with every step I took...and when those steps took me past the scars left by the wyverns in Foundation, I understood how easily that history could end in tragedy.
The attack was devastating─the casualties...unspeakable. The wyverns did not discriminate. Unarmed men and women...even children were given no quarter.
Ser Aymeric has ordered his knights to strengthen our defenses, and each house has been called upon to lend what support it can. There is much to be done, yet alas, able-bodied men and women are in short supply.
Mayhap we could be of assistance, my lord? After all you have done for us, we would welcome any opportunity to repay your kindness.
That is...a most generous offer, Master Alphinaud.
You are guests in my home, to whom I have extended my hospitality without obligation, let, or lien. Nevertheless, Ishgard's need is great, and if you are willing to aid our cause, I cannot well refuse.
Good. What would you ask of us?
From what I have heard, you are an intelligent and persuasive young man. Such qualities may prove most useful to us in our efforts to secure provisions from foreign sources─identifying trustworthy suppliers, brokering contracts, and so on.
As for you, Mistress Surname... I could ask for no one better than a storied veteran such as yourself─a woman with the capacity to act swiftly and decisively when needed─to aid Artoirel and Emmanellain in their duties.
