An adventurer, I presume?
I'm a merchant myself, based in Ul'dah. Specialty imports and exports, Eorzean and Turali both.
If this is your first “crossing the salt,” as they say, do remember that the social mores of Eorzea are not necessarily the same as those over yonder.
Consider this: it is not uncommon for the various races to be referred to instead by the names of certain clans. For the Miqo'te, the Hhetsarro; the Hrothgar, the Xbr'aal. Not because every member of a given clan is of the same race, mind, but because many individuals of said race are associated with that clan. A fair assumption, in certain cases─but take care not to give offense.
The goods I'm bringing over on this trip are a rare sight to the Turali, so I expect to make a decent profit. The local merchants are an agreeable folk.
Did you want to make a wager? We're taking bets on who'll be sat next in the Dawnservant's shiny chair.
There are four claimants in the rite of succession─your young Wuk Lamat being one of them, of course.
But from what a Mamool Ja bloke was telling us, the other three are all strong contenders. Not too many keen to risk their coin on the Third Promise.
Wait, I recognize you─you're the champion of Eorzea! If the Third Promise has you on her side, then that shifts the odds a fair bit! I might have to change my bet...
Did you learn anything of interest?
Oh! I hadn't heard that about the clan names. We should have Wuk Lamat and Erenville teach us the ones we should know.
Actually, it's getting a little chilly up here on deck. Let's all gather in the cabin.
We're in for a proper storm, it seems.
Ulp!
How's your stomach? Any better?
I don't know...what you mean. I don't get seasick.
I'm just feeling...a little nauseous, is all...
Isn't that what seasickness is...?
Erenville, you were born in Tural, yes? Do many Viera live there?
The Shetona, as my people are called, have settlements mainly in the north, in Xak Tural.
And your family?
I know nothing of my father─not even his name.
As for my mother...
