Aye, sir. Shouldn't take more than a moment.
There're more villages there than out here─but also more imperials keeping a close eye on things. We'll need to tread carefully...
I remember the peaks of Gyr Abania. Silent watchmen that would stand long after we were gone.
We came seeking allies to join us in the fight against the Empire. People who had had enough.
People who had suffered every possible indignity.Who had been treated like animals, day after day after day...
We've a glamour in place here too, as you may have noticed. So far as the imperials are concerned, this is naught more than a testament to the savage impulses of a lesser race...
Remember, though: once we leave these ruins, we'll have no glamours to conceal us. The village is to the east; keep watch for patrols as we move.
Nary an imperial in sight. That's a mercy.
Ala Gannha's due east, past that bridge. Follow me, it's not much further.
You can rest easy─we made it. This is Ala Gannha.
It feels strange coming home like this. I always imagined it would be... Oh, sorry. That has nothing to do with why we're here. We need recruits.
Aye, we do, but as I said back at the Reach, it's a little more complicated than just asking for volunteers these days.
As you know, we're shorthanded because many of our people were taken in by the Griffin's promises and went to the Wall, never to return. It wasn't just them, though─folks from all over, including some of my former comrades, answered his call to arms.
As for why we came to this particular village... It's rumored that Ala Gannha lost a few youths as well.
If there's truth to that, then there could be others sympathetic to the cause. Then again, after the Griffin's betrayal, they may be suspicious of outsiders claiming allegiance to the Resistance─and rightfully so.
So with all that in mind, how are we supposed to convince them to join? I mean, I knew it wouldn't be as simple as giving a speech in the village square─
Not if you didn't want the place to be burned to the ground, no. You might as well piss in the viceroy's eye. We'll need to be a good deal more circumspect than that. You never know when an imperial spy is listening.
We must speak with the elder first. I know for a fact he can be trusted. We'll listen to what he has to say and decide what to do after.
Sounds like a plan! Let's hope there are still some brave men and women here willing to fight.
Raganfrid, the village elder, is over by the shore. No time like the present─let's have a word.
