Long live...Lord Vauthry...
He would use his own people as shields.
This area is older than Gatetown. There are bound to be far more civilians under Vauthry's control.
But they do not act of their own free will, and we must not harm them.
As if we ever would.
Press on with Alphinaud. We'll hold off the civilians and join you as soon as we can.
Do no more than is necessary to subdue the civilians!
We're wasting time. Ryne─we hold them here while the others press on!
A-All right!
Have care, you two! The rest of you, with me!
Their minds are not their own, remember! Avoid harming them wherever possible!
There is no end to them... Urianger─would you care to make a stand?
Gladly. Forename─pray press on with the others when the opportunity doth arise.
The way's clear! Come on, you two!
Confound it! More of them! And we were almost through!
Right, my turn to make a heroic stand! As soon as there's a lull, push on!
Now, Forename─into the tower! Just you take care, Alisaie!
The jesters from before!
Apologies, friends...but you've reached a dead end. And on this sorry track, there's no turning back.
We've a good life here, see, and we're not about to lose it. But fair's fair─we'll give you a good death.
If you would fight us of your own volition, then we will not hold back!
This one's a real sidesplitter!
But at least you'll die laughing!
Let us climb to the Canopy. From there we will take the Crown Lift.
Still more soldiers... Leave them to me and press on!
You will find my master in his chamber...
But only should you kill me this day─and you will not.
You may think me under his spell, but I uphold Lord Vauthry's ideals of my own volition.
Man is an inherently flawed creature. In his vain pursuit of righteousness, he but sows the seeds of future conflict.
Thus have I chosen to place my hopes upon he who has transcended men. Upon he who is unbound by the vagaries of conscience.
But enough talk. I am a soldier, and you are my enemy.
Come! Let us settle this once and for all!
Ever since I submitted to my master's authority, I have been naught but a weapon.
I exist only to destroy. And destroy you I will.
It is time we settled this, villain.
If you would pass me, you must endure all that I have learned on the battlefield... For I am a weapon forged in the fires of war!
Ah...there you are...my precious girls...
Are you all right, Forename!?
The citizens appear to have calmed down for the moment. I can only assume Vauthry is otherwise engaged. Let's get to the upper level while we can.
Lord Vauthry! Your reign of tyranny is at an end.
For too long, you have preyed upon the desperation of the poor. Now you will answer for the suffering you have caused!
And if you harbor even a shred of remorse, I beseech you to use your powers to redress the balance. For the future of all in Norvrandt.
No... It can't be. This is wrong. It's wrong!
The Warden─it's not just a sin eater. It's a man!
Remorse? For the future of all? What nonsense is this?
There is no justice but mine. No future but mine. No will but mine.
It is preordained. I was born to deliver this wretched world.
Me? Unseated? No, no, no, no, no...
It's impossible. Inconceivable! Absurd! I am a great and wise king. Greatest and wisest! I reign from on high!
I will not be brought low by maggots like you!
Oh, yes. Of course. I can begin again. Rebuild my paradise. Once I finish my dinner...
Oh gods, no─ Stop him! Thancred, stop him!
Where did he go!?
What in the heavens!?
Did Vauthry do that?
Wait.
That is Mt. Gulg, the highest peak in Kholusia. It lies on the other side of a sheer cliff, and much as I wish it were otherwise, it is beyond our reach for now.
But even if it weren't─there are people here who need our help.
Oh, Alphinaud...
Please. Even if it's only to tend to their wounds.
Thank you.
I don't know if it will work, but if Vauthry's hold over the people is rooted in Light, I might be able to reverse its effects.
Will you let me try?
Of course. We'd be grateful for any help you can provide.
Well then, if it's decided, let's all get to work.
Good news, Forename. It would seem that Ryne is indeed able to reverse the effects of Vauthry's influence.
Even as we speak, she tends to the afflicted in turn. The problem being: there's no end to them.
We're trying to provide what relief we can to those who are waiting, and would appreciate your help, if you're willing.
So, here is some dream powder.
We're administering it to the enthralled to keep them calm until they can receive proper attention. I would appreciate it if you could assist with this task.
Now, those affected are scattered all over the city. I suggest starting your search at the Derelicts and working your way up.
When you are done, be sure to let Ryne know.
O Lord Vauthry... You are...my daily meol...
<snore> <snore>
Ahhh...it hurts... Please, Lord Vauthry...take away the pain...
You're the kind soul who saved me from falling to my death!
M-My mistress, she's been injured! Please help her, I beg you!
Wh-What is this?
She's...sleeping. A medicine to help her rest while she awaits treatment, you say?
Oh, thank you so much! When she began acting strangely, I didn't know what to do...
Must stop...trespassers... Sullying...our paradise...
<snort> Where did you fly to...my sweet canary...?
Oh, there you are, Forename.
I've just finished aiding this man. Now, for the next one...
More out in the Derelicts and below, you say? So many of them...
But Minfilia entrusted this power to me. I won't rest until I've helped everyone.
Oh, that would certainly make it easier for me to work.
Thank you, Forename. I'll do my best to keep pace.
I'm sure Alphinaud and Alisaie would appreciate the help.
And should you find other enthralled civilians, please see that they are brought to me.
You're going to be all right.
I think that's the last of them.
We've done all we can for the wounded.
As for the rest...
U-Um...a-aren't you Alphinaud? The painter boy?
What in the world is going on? Did something happen to us?
Let me handle this.
Citizens of Eulmore. What I'm about to tell you will come as a shock.
Indeed, you may be loath to believe it. But if you trust the evidence of your senses, it is my hope that you will listen and accept the truth, unpalatable though it may be.
Vauthry is a sin eater. Everything he offered, everything he promised, was a lie...
They're not taking it well. And who could blame them?
