The Garlemald of old may have fallen. But she fell in civil war, to her own people. Not to Eorzea nor any other land.
We came here to assert our unequivocal claim to our territory. Garlemald─and all that lies within her bounds─is beholden to no one.
Our sovereignty is of paramount importance. On this point, there can be no concessions.
We will treat with the Ilsabard contingent, if only to assert our rights. If your intentions are as benevolent as you claim, then you will agree to our demands.
There is no common ground to be found with these men. In spite of this, you would still engage with them?
I do not begrudge them their hostility─they merely seek to protect their homeland. That said, we must strive to reach an understanding with one another.
Since Their Excellencies are resolved to negotiate with the contingent, I will escort them to Tertium. I'll also instruct Alphinaud and Alisaie to meet us there.
...Lord Mettius, Lord Gnaeus. By your leave, my comrades and I would speak with the residents of Senatus.
Though the Ilsabard contingent holds the Tower of Babil, it is I who wishes for it to be reactivated, and thus I think it meet that I be present for this discussion.
Yet my understanding of your people's hardships─of their hopes and desires, of their dreams for the future─is sorely lacking. In my ignorance, I would struggle to contribute.
Lest you worry, I will not plead our case to the community in your absence. I wish only to identify common ground, upon which we might build a relationship that sees us overcome our differences.
...Very well. But know that the guards will not hesitate to escort you from the premises should they judge your actions to be inappropriate.
If it's settled, then, you should all head to Senatus.
I'll join you there after I see Their Excellencies safely to Tertium.
We will do what we must to protect the interests of the Garlean people.
Hmph. I have no interest in idle chatter.
Formal talks will have to wait until all parties are present.
