You have business with me, madam? Why don't we talk down below so as not to distract the alpaca from his work.
Now, what's this about? Keep it brief, if you would. I'm a busy man.
We're in the market for a three-year-old jug of premium mezcal. Assuming you have any on hand, that is.
Ah, an excellent choice. I must warn you, though: it doesn't come cheap.
We don't have pel...but we can offer a sack of mate leaves in exchange! It's top-grade stuff, like the mezcal!
No deal. Mate leaves are well and good, but I don't have any use for them.
“No deal”!? Just like that!?
Still, I'd hate to send you away empty-handed. Why don't we sit and chat awhile over a cup of mezcal?
Now the real bargaining begins. Which of our cards do you want to play first?
Let's hold on to that one. We need to consider our timing!
Let's hold on to that one. We need to consider our timing!
I appreciate your hospitality, but I'm afraid I can't hold my drink. I've heard one of your regular customers─a Hoobigo chef─is the same.
Seeing as not everyone can enjoy mezcal, I wonder if you might benefit from having other refreshments to offer...
Something like mate tea, for instance. And brewed from the finest leaves, of course!
Ah, you're right─absolutely right! I had noticed a growing reluctance on the part of my Hoobigo friend, but did not realize I myself was to blame. I must endeavor to be a better host. Still, even with that added value in mind, no sack of leaves is worth the mezcal you're after.
(Should we offer to cull the monsters causing them trouble?)
(Not yet! We'll keep that card up our sleeve until we need it.)
As I expect you're aware, the rite of succession is currently taking place. That's why the Third Promise has graced us with her presence.
When the contest is decided, the subsequent ascension ceremony and banquet will be a prestigious affair. If your mezcal were to be served there, it would bring your distillery immeasurable fame!
Wait... Could it be that your rumored invitation to the palace is to discuss that very possibility?
As a matter of fact, yes... I must admit, I'm still reeling from the abruptness of it all. It would be a great honor and opportunity...if I can secure the deal.
Well, I should think your exceptional mezcal would speak for itself! That said, there's no such thing as being too prepared, and first impressions last. You'll want to be wearing your very best when you walk into Vollok Shoonsa.
It would be such a shame to miss this chance of a lifetime simply for want of proper garments...
That it would... Are you saying you have garments to offer? Something ideal for court?
We have no garments on hand, I'm afraid, but we can provide you with the next best thing: an introduction to a weaver. His name is Bol Noq', and his works are highly regarded in Tuliyollal!
As a supporter of Wuk Lamat and keen observer of palace politics, he will doubtless be happy to guide you in the selection of an outfit to fit this golden occasion.
That is certainly a tempting proposal, and one of which I should like to take full advantage. But the scales still aren't quite balancing.
Say, weren't there monsters running amok in Agave Jaws? That's a problem we could easily solve for you!
Truly? I would be most grateful for your immediate assistance. I was resigned to hiring sellswords to clear them out.
Factoring in that saved expense and an introduction to a trusted weaver, this is shaping up to be a sound bargain. Alright! You have a deal.
Yes, I knew you'd come around! Give us a moment, and Forename and I will take care of those prowling nuisances!
In the meantime, I'll use the time to pen an introductory letter to Bol Noq'.
The fields you're looking for are just north of Wachunpelo. Be safe!
That young woman is one formidable trader.
Please be careful out there!
That should be Agave Jaws, just over there. This'll go faster if we split up. Come and find me once you've finished clearing out your share of the pests!
Easy as picking mate leaves!
Easy as picking mate leaves!
Compared to the creatures I hunted with Papa, this was no challenge at all.
Come on, let's head back to the distillery. All that's left is to give Mablu the sack of leaves so she can seal the deal!
Finished already? Even hardened mercenaries would have taken longer!
Go on, give Mablu the sack of leaves so she can seal the deal!
Those monsters were no trouble for you, it seems! Now, if I could just have the sack of leaves...
Thank you for looking after our precious trading goods!
Your monster problem has been resolved, Master Gobli! Here are the mate leaves and a written introduction to Bol Noq', as agreed.
Then the deal is done. Here. Your jug of premium mezcal, aged three years. Please accept it with my compliments.
Yes! We finally have the mezcal! Great work─especially you, Mablu!
You were the one that inspired me to come this far, Third Promise. But let's not celebrate until we have the saddle in hand!
Mablu, is it? You drive a hard bargain, young peddler. I look forward to doing business with you in the future.
Thank you, but...truth be told, I'm just a ranch hand. For now. Should I ever become a proper merchant, though, I'll be back to strike more deals with you!
Thank you, but...truth be told, I'm just a ranch hand. For now. Should I ever become a proper merchant, though, I'll be back to strike more deals with you!
I'm satisfied with our trade, and I trust you are too. Should you have need of more mezcal, you know who to come to!
Master Gobli's praise makes me confident I can be a peddler after all... Well, a bit more confident than before, at least!
Even at the palace, I don't think I've held a ten thousand pel jug of anything before. My hands won't stop shaking... Here, you'd better hold on to it until we get to the saddlemaker.
Ahahaha! Can you imagine if we dropped it and had to start all over again?
Luckily, Havli's place is not far─we just need to head across the plaza!
My price is final. Bring me a jug of premium mezcal, or go bargain with another saddlemaker.
The Third Promise looks ready to trade the mezcal now!
This is it─the trade we've been working towards!
Phew, still in one piece... Right, time to make our deal!
Get your tools ready, saddler─we've brought your precious mezcal!
Wait, you actually got your hands on a jug? But you had nothing─a few measly clumps of wool...
What we had was an aspiring trader with a gift for negotiation.
Although I'd sooner aid no claimant but Zoraal Ja, I cannot go against the guiding principles of the Pelupelu.
The trade is a fair one. I will craft your saddle, Third Promise.
Great!
Stay and wait if you like. I have all the requisite materials, so this won't take long.
...Your commission is ready. Catching a wild alpaca is never a simple affair, but you'll have an easier time of it with one of my saddles.
Now, if you don't mind, I have other work that needs finishing. Ah, I can taste that smooth mezcal already...
We did it! The saddle is ours!
And to think we started out with only a hundred-pel basket of alpaca wool... Mablu, you are going to be an incredible merchant!
Thank you! It makes me so glad to hear you say that, Third Promise!
We got what we came for, so let's return to the ranch! The others will be waiting.
We got what we came for, so let's return to the ranch! The others will be waiting.
So that was the Third Promise. She's not the spoiled, untested daughter I was expecting...
You've been away for some time. I assume trading was productive?
Tobli and Erenville have been teaching us how to care for alpacas. One gentle girl ate the feed straight from my hand!
I made the mistake of startling one and caught a glob of spittle for my trouble. I'm beginning to understand Wuk Lamat's aversion to the animals...
It looks like everyone's been pitching in with the alpacas!
Let's tell them the good news!
You've acquired the saddle, then?
Yes, and thanks in no small part to Mablu!
Before you rush off to catch an alpaca, though, let me teach you how to saddle one. I'll bring out one of our wild-born friends so you can practice!
I know, I know. This is something I need to learn.
Great sunken gods, I did it!
He hardly seemed bothered, much less inclined to spit. As if he was completely accepting of Wuk Lamat's touch...
That is because of the singular scent with which the saddle has been coated. Alpacas find it very soothing.
You know, I've never taken a good, long look at one of you before, but...
You're actually kind of cute.
Ahahaha, you're only now noticing that!?
Zoraal Ja! He's back.
Having done exactly what he set out to do...
That alpaca he's brought... Is it just me or is it...glowing?
I've heard tales of such a beast. They say the golden alpaca lives a solitary existence deep in the valley, where it shuns the company of both man and its own kind.
How did he manage to snare a prize like that?
A beast knows its betters. Faced with overwhelming strength, it will yield rather than risk death. An apt illustration of how greatly the power of the First Promise exceeds yours, Wuk Lamat.
Strength alone won't win him our father's throne. I'll be the one to find the golden city, and then Tural can remain at peace.
An everlasting desire for peace can only be forged in the fires of war.
To unite as one, the people must be taught. They must suffer the horror and the hopelessness firsthand.
Exhaustion from prolonged conflict. The wages of war's merciless nature. These are what moved the clans to join in the founding of Tuliyollal all those years ago.
Consider the younger generation of this village. Since birth have they basked in unbroken harmony, and behold: they regard war not as tragedy but opportunity.
Thus does the Resilient Son seek to provide education. He offers much-needed lessons in the realities of conquest and a renewed appreciation for peacetime.
'Tis true that war's misery breeds a longing for peace.
But I have seen with my own eyes what becomes of an empire forged through the violence you propose─the rebellions it spawned, and the ruins it left behind.
The Garlean Empire was a congregation of simpletons.
The oppressed fought back against their oppressors. As well they should.
Men are not beasts. Only a fool would seek to rule over all with the threat of force alone.
This is why Gulool Ja Ja did not elevate the Mamool Ja; why he treated all clans with equal respect.
However!
The First Promise has his gaze fixed upon more distant horizons! He would unite not only Tuliyollal, but the star in its entirety!
What? Why?
I need not explain myself to you.
Oh, well done! Well done, indeed! The First Promise has completed the Feat of Gold with an appropriately golden flourish! May I present to you your much-deserved keystone!
He's always been like that─never sharing his innermost thoughts with me or even with Koana.
It's like we're not even family...
A golden alpaca in the flesh... Like the golden city, I thought them a children's tale.
I could never agree with Zoraal Ja. I want Tuliyollal to be a land of peace, now and always.
So much of our star has begun to embrace reconciliation and rebuild...and this would-be warlord would thrust us all back into turmoil. We cannot allow it to happen.
What kind of idiot thinks the world can be united with war? Even most Garleans have since realized that their conquests were a mistake.
Zoraal Ja is willing to go to war for his twisted vision of peace. But should he achieve this peace, then what...?
Zoraal Ja is willing to go to war for his twisted vision of peace. But should he achieve this peace, then what...?
I'll ponder Zoraal Ja and his mysteries later. Right now, I need to think about finishing the Feat of Gold!
I have my saddle, I've practiced how to use it, so lead on to where the wild alpacas roam!
The valley of Oruncanca is northwest of here. Come on, everyone─even if we can't enter ourselves, we can see Wuk Lamat off on her hunt!
Mablu's right. The least we can do is let Wuk Lamat know we're cheering for her!
Zoraal Ja may have caught his alpaca first, but that doesn't mean Wuk Lamat is out of the running. She can do this.
Oruncanca is a steep and treacherous place, so only those with the head ledger's blessing are permitted to go there.
I've never set foot beyond this point. The valley is said to be home to fiends far more ferocious than spitting alpacas.
How deep do you think the valley is? I glanced over the edge on the way here, but the mist was too thick to even speculate.
I can do this... I know I can...
I can do this... I know I can...
I can do this... I know I can...
I can do this... I know I can...
Good luck, Third Promise!
Thanks, I'll need it!
Truth be told, I'm still not sure about alpacas. I'd rather not go near one if I can help it.
But if I'm to rule this nation, then I'll need to learn how to live with them. Tural is their home, too.
Right, I'm off!
So, shall we head back to the ranch, or...
I'm staying here!
As will I. Wuk Lamat is alone in this. The least we can do is stand watch and await her return.
It may be a while yet. Help me pitch the tent.
Trust a gleaner to come prepared for anything.
What's a gleaner?
Someone whose job it is to travel the world and procure uncommon things for their employers. Erenville specializes in finding animals, I believe.
But aren't you a Shetona, from Xak Tural? Why did you cross the salt?
When I was much younger, the thought of leaving Tural never even occurred to me.
But then, some years ago, my mentor tasked me with a difficult hunt.
Something I could never find, she said, so long as I clung to the familiar. She suggested that I leave home─leave Tural─and join the gleaners of Sharlayan.
As one of their number, I could experience the world. Immerse myself in myriad cultures and customs. See the many faces of nature. And once I had learned what is truly important, I would find that which I seek.
My younger self took those words to heart, and off I went to become a gleaner.
Her words alone moved you to leave behind everything you'd ever known? You must have great respect for your mentor.
As it happens, gleaner work was much to my liking, and I all but forgot why I had pursued it in the first place...
Yet events conspired to put me back on the trail I'd abandoned.
Wait... Are you saying you were tasked with finding the city of gold?
I was. And though my hunt is now entangled with the rite of succession, I mean to see it through.
Well then...I understand completely! We all have our reasons for seeking the golden city...
Which is all the more reason for us to work together!
Just so.
She should've been back by now! What if something's happened to her? We need to tell Tobli and arrange a search party!
Wait... Do you hear that?
I did it...
You're utterly spent, and small wonder.
Well done, Third Promise.
The ranch isn't going anywhere. Take a rest in the tent.
I think I will. Thank you all for believing in me.
We were out here for quite some time, but I'm glad Wuk Lamat was able to catch her alpaca. And Erenville choosing to share his story with us was a welcome surprise!
...I spoke too much. If Wuk Lamat is up to it, we should be heading back to Tobli.
Thanks to Alphinaud and his healing hands, I can actually stand again...maybe even walk!
Wuk Lamat had no serious injuries to speak of. However, she had clearly been pushed to the very limits of her endurance.
Alphinaud was quick to lend a hand with dismantling the tent. Is this to be his new obsession now that he's mastered collecting firewood...?
I'm so relieved the Third Promise came back to us safely!
And the alpaca she tamed is a healthy-looking beast. Surely this will be enough to satisfy the Feat of Gold!
Wuk Lamat still seems a bit unsteady on her feet. Hardly surprising after she spent the night chasing alpacas. You know what will melt away fatigue like magic, though? Mate tea!
I'll run to the ranch and get a pot brewing. That way you can take your time, and the tea will be ready when you arrive!
As Mablu so wisely suggested, we shall set a slower pace for our exhausted Third Promise.
Came back ahead of the others, did you? I should hurry along with the tea, then─Wuk Lamat can't be that far behind!
Ooh, that tea really is magical─I feel better already!
I see you've become more comfortable around our fuzzy friends.
Watching this one taught me a lot about alpacas. What grasses and fruits they eat, what sounds they react to, their adorable little quirks...
I guess I've grown kind of fond of them!
Welcome back, Third Promise. Accomplished the Feat of Gold, have you?
Hm, yes, there is no mistaking a valley alpaca.
I commend you on your success. Well done!
Yes, we did it!
...Although I couldn't find a shiny one like Zoraal Ja did.
I'd be surprised if you had! Golden alpacas are born but once every few decades. They are elusive, solitary creatures that are rarely seen─much less captured─thanks to their innate physical and magical gifts.
Only a single other person is known to have caught one before─that being Gulool Ja Ja himself.
Papa was chasing alpacas, too!?
So my grandfather's stories say.
It was before the founding of Tuliyollal, in a time when the mountain giants─the Yok Huy─held our people in thrall.
Compelled by their overlords, our forebears would ride their alpaca mounts to the highlands to deliver gifts of food and other tributes. Those were wretched days, to hear Grandfather tell it.
Then along came the young Gulool Ja Ja, yet unburdened by the mantle of Dawnservant.
Our people were amazed by this imposing two-headed figure, equal to the Yok Huy in stature, and puzzled by his entourage of mismatched companions.
Some trembled in fear, believing a new conqueror had come.
Yet Gulool Ja Ja showed no such inclinations. He sat and spoke with us, sipping from the cups of mate tea we offered him, and grew somber when he learned of our plight.
None could have anticipated what their visitor decided to do next! Gulool Ja Ja ascended the cliffs to face the giants and freed the Pelupelu from the Yok Huy's subjugation!
He then turned an appraising eye upon our riders and proposed we take to the road to peddle our beverages. The suggestion seemed obvious for one who traveled as he did, intent on fostering amity between the clans.
So it was that a few words from Gulool Ja Ja transformed us into a clan of itinerant merchants.
I've never heard the bond Papa forged with the Pelupelu spoken of in that way before. The saga is not so detailed.
Then you may not know that Gulool Ja Ja sought a sure-footed guide for his trek up into the highlands. Thus did he capture a golden alpaca.
So both my brother and my father caught the rarest of creatures...
...while an ordinary one was the best I could manage!
The feat required no more than that, Third Promise. And you brought back a perfectly wonderful beast!
Mablu's right. You're a perfectly wonderful beast. If anyone's ordinary, it's me...
Not only did you accomplish the Feat of Gold, you also made many trades and brought joy to many people in true Pelupelu fashion. I sorely doubt your sibling could have achieved the same result.
You should be proud of the accomplishments which earned you your keystone.
Five more to go.
So this is what they look like.
Go on, set it in the tablet!
A perfect fit! That leaves six more.
You're well on your way, Third Promise!
We'd have been lost without you, Mablu. Thanks to you, I learned so much about the Pelu people and your customs.
It might seem obvious, but I've come to realize the importance of properly knowing something. It was because I didn't understand alpacas that I was uncomfortable around them.
I'm thankful to you as well, Wuk Lamat. You've given me the courage to say what I wasn't sure I could ever say!
Tobli... I want to leave the ranch and become a merchant!
I appreciate everything you've done for me, and I've loved every moment caring for the alpacas.
But this is something I need to do! I need to walk my own path, and make my own trades!
As your parent, allow me to say one thing.
I've always tried to give my wards lives filled with as much happiness as I could provide. Yet never once have I wanted that to be the only happiness you knew.
You have my blessing to walk any path you choose, Mablu. It gladdens me to hear you've found a calling you wish to pursue with such passion. You will make an exceptional peddler, I'm sure of it.
Thank you, Tobli...
What did I tell you, Mablu!
There's one last thing I can help you with, Third Promise. You need to find the golden city, right?
That's the end goal...
Then I suggest you talk to the Yok Huy.
They once ruled over far more than just Urqopacha and the Pelupelu. A thousand years ago, they were the overlords of Yok Tural and all its peoples.
During that era, the Pelupelu were commanded to search for a city of gold.
They scoured every corner of the continent, but never found any trace of that fabled place.
But...if they didn't find anything, what could the Yok Huy have to tell us?
They may not have found it...but the fact that they thought to look for it at all makes me curious. Perhaps there's value in delving into how the legend originated?
We lose nothing from asking the question. Besides, if we're determined to follow the path of the saga...
...we'll be visiting the giants eventually.
Oh, Krile. I have a question I'd been meaning to ask, and since we've finished with the feat─where did you acquire that earring?
My earring? Do you recognize it?
Yes, pieces just like it first became fashionable in Yok Tural around twenty years ago. Since then, it's become common to wear one as a charm for safe travel.
Twenty years ago─right about the time my grandfather made his journey. Yet the Dawnservant implied the earring was connected to the golden city in some way. Surely there was more to its significance than simple fashion...
If you want to know how it first came to be crafted, I could try to find out. Seeing as it's a regular seller for many merchants, I'm curious to learn about it myself!
I would appreciate that very much, thank you.
Jumping feetfirst into the peddler business, eh, Mablu?
Right then, that's two keystones down. I say we head back to Tuliyollal and plan our next move!
Right then, let's head back to Tuliyollal and get ready to search for the next elector!
Farewell for now, and thanks for all your help! I will become Dawnservant, so make sure you set aside your best mezcal for the occasion!
She has a fearsome opponent in that brother of hers. He even brought a golden alpaca to heel.
But you've heard Zoraal Ja's supporters talk. They might see opportunity in his expansionist ambitions, but they find the man himself intimidating. Terrifying, even.
Whereas I've grown to love Wuk Lamat! Everyone she meets will come to love her, too, and that's why she'll win the throne!
You might be right, Mablu. You might be right.
I never dared hope we would find a lead for this earring mystery so quickly.
That makes two out of seven keystones... So far, so good.
Four-legged troubles aside, Wuk Lamat completed the feat and earned a keystone. That's all that matters.
The Yok Huy once ruled the entirety of Yok Tural. I'm curious to see what has become of them.
I expected as much from the moment I saw him, but winning the contest against Zoraal Ja will not be easy.
It feels good to have the Feat of Gold safely under our belt...even if my victory pales beside Zoraal Ja and his shiny golden alpaca.
I know I shouldn't let it bother me, and gods know you've all been so supportive, but I want to be strong─or wise─like my brothers. To be a Promise that people respect.
...Which is not likely if I stand here carrying on and on about things! Let's move on!
Back to Xbalyav Ty'e with us─the contest has hardly begun!
I've heard there are hot springs in Urqopacha. Mayhap, time permitting...
I have not forgotten our obligations to Wuk Lamat, of course. Having immersed ourselves in the cultures of others, though, my anticipation for the new experiences this adventure will bring us has only grown.
The Pelu remind me of Lalafell, never letting their size slow them down or hold them back. They move at their own pace, making their textiles and mezcal, and raise alpacas to bear them to market.
Idle musings aside, we've made a good start on these challenges. Hopefully we can keep it up.
Neither Koana nor Bakool Ja Ja appeared to be in Wachunpelo... I imagine they're around somewhere, making progress even as we are.
Yet in a contest like this one, 'tis only a matter of time until the claimants are pitted against each other in direct competition.
A golden alpaca... Alone, I may have tried to track the beast myself.
...Traveling with so large and diverse a group is...unfamiliar to me. If she could see me now...
Xbalyav Ty'e is truly a wonder of the culinarian world.
Look at us!
The contest has barely begun and we already have two keystones! Surely even my talented brothers aren't doing this well!
We can only hope.
And just like that, we found an elector and won our first keystone. I knew I was right to trust your instincts!
Come on! Let's keep things moving, and march onwards to Kozama'uka!
Chances are good we'll find an elector there as well. Before we do anything, however, we should see what your patient Hanu friend has to say.
Come on, Forename─let's see what's waiting for us in the next village!
Wuk Lamat would have struggled to complete these feats alone. Bringing you together was the correct choice, it seems.
With one keystone already in hand, we've made an auspicious start to the contest. Hopefully our next attempt is equally successful.
The rules of the contest seem clear enough now: the scenes from the saga point us in the direction of the electors, and the electors award us keystones for performing their feats. Simple!
Without knowing how far the other claimants have progressed, taking anything other than a brief rest is out of the question.
I have not forgotten our obligations to Wuk Lamat, but it's moments like these─when we can immerse ourselves in the cultures of others─that fill me with anticipation for the new experiences this adventure will bring us.
We've now won keystones from both the Feat of Reeds and the Feat of Gold. Surely that means our approach to the contest was the right one?
So it would seem. By continuing to retrace Gulool Ja Ja's journey as presented in the saga, we should find the remaining electors in turn.
Then let's visit the giants next! Like Krile said, the fact that they were searching for the golden city might mean they know something useful.
The home of the Yok Huy is in the upper reaches of Urqopacha. Unless you're keen on scaling the cliffs, we'll have to take the long way around─through Kozama'uka.
This route will take us close to the Moblin village...which is another important location in the saga.
Since we'll need all the keystones eventually, it makes sense to pay them a visit while we're passing through.
So we call on the Moblins first, then. Let's head there right now!
I'm afraid “right now” is going to be a problem...
The Flight of We Wingless, the great stairs leading to the Moblin settlement, collapsed in the storm.
What are we to do, then?
There is an alternative, but it requires preparation. Until it's ready, you could rest at the cabins or see more of the city. Whatever you prefer.
Just to be sure: you'll accept any method of travel as long as it gets us to our destination?
Of course. Who do you take me for?
...Hmm. Then as your guide, I will see to the arrangements.
Well, it seems we have some free time on our hands. Let us make the most of it.
I need to get my axe repaired. I nicked the blade pretty badly when I took a swing at Bakool Ja Ja.
That reminds me, I never got around to introducing you to Ropli, did I? He's the man in charge of Wachumeqimeqi, and a good person to know. Want to come along?
Let's go, then!
Ready? The markets of Wachumeqimeqi are to the east, on the other side of Bayside Bevy.
Wachumeqimeqi is everything that Tuliyollal was built to be.
Something you eat not agree with you? Well, I'll be waiting by Xbalyav Ty'e whenever you're ready!
Feeling better? Let's get back to it, then!
This is Aunt Tii's Tacos, named for its owner here, the lovely Tiisol.
If you're after the best tacos in Tuliyollal, this place sits at the top with Xbalyav Ty'e.
