My apologies, Your Grace, I have kept you waiting!
No apologies are necessary, Godbert. My request was sudden, and you were kind to make yourself available at such short notice.
When the sultana herself comes calling, there is no more important engagement!
As to the purpose of my visit, I would have your thoughts on how the crown might best aid the refugees residing in Thanalan.
You are aware, I am sure, that many of Ala Mhigo's displaced sons and daughters long to return to their newly liberated homeland. And you are also aware of how they will suffer without shelter and work to sustain them.
I would use our nation's wealth to spare them that suffering. What advice have you for me on the matter of how it might best be distributed?
...The unusual circumstances of our meeting, and Your Grace's choice of companion, would suggest to me a desire for an honest and unvarnished opinion. I shall give you one.
My advice to you is: “Stop.” Taxing Ul'dah's wealth to save Ala Mhigan refugees is a terrible, terrible idea.
You oppose my proposition?
Most emphatically. I agree with Your Grace that the refugees must have housing and employment, but what profit is there for Ul'dah in this arrangement?
Profit? After all you have done for Gyr Abania's displaced, I thought you the very last person to seek to benefit from their misfortune!
Forgive me, Your Grace, but you appear to be laboring under a misapprehension.
It is a fine endeavor to support one's fellow man. I fear, however, that your stance is one born of pity─your intent is to “save” the refugees, is it not?
For all our potential, we are indolent creatures by nature. If unconditional charity is all we know, then we begin to rely upon it─to expect it.
And then we must consider Ul'dah's own poor and downtrodden. Should they hear of you spending the nation's coin─not to improve their lot, but to nurture the distant citizens of Ala Mhigo─it is unlikely they will applaud your generosity.
Surely it is not Your Grace's intention to foster new resentments, but to spread goodwill?
Indeed....Then any support I pledge to the refugees must promote self-sufficiency, whilst also serving the interests of the people of Ul'dah.
Exactly so! Such an arrangement will create a far more equitable relationship with the returning Ala Mhigans, even as it generates the revenue required to win the approval of your subjects.
You have given me much to ponder, Lord Manderville. I thank you for your candor.
Profit... The thought never even crossed my mind.
But standing about lamenting my naivety will not do anyone any good. I shall consider my lesson learned, and press on.
Forename─are you perchance acquainted with any successful merchants? If my attempt at philanthropy is obliged to reap a profit, it would seem wise to consult someone with a knack for business.
Hm... Ordinarily, I would not trust any agent of the East Aldenard Trading Company─but if you hold this Hancock fellow in high esteem, I am content to be led by you. You may repay my faith by journeying to distant Kugane and speaking with him on my behalf.
Eager though I am to visit those shores, I have not the leisure for a lengthy sea voyage. Now, assuming you will travel as adventurers are wont to do, I shall await your report by the aetheryte in Ul'dah. A fair journey to you, Forename─and a swift one, if you please.
Greetings, honored madam. Will you be entering the Ruby Bazaar offices?
Forename! To what do I owe the pleasure? Or are you here on business?
...I beg your pardon? Her Grace the sultana would have my opinion on how best to invest the wealth of Ul'dah?
My dear Forename... I have you to thank for this...recognition, I am sure. And I am flattered that you came to me. Truly flattered.
But why settle for a lowly apprentice, when you could have the master! Upon matters of profit, there is no living soul better-qualified to advise Her Grace than Chairman Lolorito─a man whose morning “exertions” are said to fill his garderobe with gold!
I should be happy to arrange a meeting for you...say, at the Scions' former headquarters in Thanalan? The Waking Sands would seem a suitably neutral venue for negotiations, don't you think? Fare you well, Forename, and may your dealings prove fruitful!
Welcome back, Forename. Did your merchant friend have any useful advice to share?
...With Lolorito!? And you agreed to this!?
I am well aware of his standing in the field of business. But I had hoped to keep the Monetarists at arm's length, and him in particular...
...Nay. I cannot live in fear of the man. I must learn how to treat with him if I am to rule Ul'dah effectively.
Very well! I will meet with Lolorito. Let us go on ahead to the Waking Sands, and prepare for his coming.
So this is where the Scions first congregated... I have heard many tales, but never had occasion to visit.
To work, then. The hour of the meeting draws near, and I would gather my thoughts. Pray see to it that we have the appointed room to ourselves.
A personal summons from the Scions─this must be important business indeed. Though if it concerns anything so underhand as an assassination, I fear I can be of little help.
Hm hm hm hm.
You have made your point.
'Tis indeed unsettling to find oneself seated across from an impassive mask.
There. Would this better please Your Grace? Or should I address you as “Lady Lilira,” hmm?
Nay, the deception has served its purpose. I am glad to see you found amusement in my little jest, Lord Lolorito, but shall we proceed to the business at hand?
By all means. I must say, I am most eager to hear your proposal.
Simply put, I would aid the refugees camped in Thanalan in their efforts to return to Ala Mhigo.
The reparations you paid in the wake of your earlier misdemeanors will be used to fund the endeavor─together with the fortune seized from the late Teledji Adeledji's estate.
But this plan is not intended to benefit the displaced alone. I would make of this an investment which shall enrich Ul'dah and Ala Mhigo both.
And who better to consult on matters of profit than the wealthiest man in all of Thanalan? I beseech you, then, Lord Lolorito...share with us your mercantile wisdom.
Ah heh heh... 'Twould seem Your Grace has matured beyond acts of earnest yet misplaced charity. Pray tell me more...
To summarize: in return for facilitating the repatriation of refugees, and assisting in the establishment of new industry in Ala Mhigo, you ask that a proportion of all subsequent profits be promised to Ul'dah.
I am impressed, Your Grace. 'Tis an elegant solution─albeit one lacking certain crucial details, specifically which industry and where.
How swiftly you identify the weakness in my plan, just as I knew you would.
Your travels have taken you across the length and breadth of Gyr Abania, and you know the land far better than I.
Which of the settlements you visited would best provide a home for our refugees? Which has the greatest potential to flourish, given the appropriate investment?
Yes, a quarry town certainly does carry the potential for profit─at least, it would do, were it situated anywhere near a lucrative market. It would cost more to transport the materials than they are worth. In my humble opinion.
Yes, if a stable trade route can be established between Ul'dah and Ala Mhigo, then Ala Ghiri would once more become an important waypoint. But while such growth would greatly benefit its current residents, I am afraid it could sustain little beyond that...
Ah, yes─that desolate little village on the shore of Loch Seld.
I know the Saltery and its products well. The imperial invasion brought an end to their more widespread distribution, much to the dismay of many a wealthy gourmand. Myself included.
Salt has ever been a transformative ingredient. And in this instance, I daresay it could transform a modicum of effort into a mountain of gil.
The local citizens will need to be consulted, of course, but I trust the East Aldenard Trading Company can be relied upon to provide its assistance in negotiating a mutually beneficial arrangement.
Naturally, Your Grace. I shall dispatch representatives well versed in the extraction of this “white gold,” and wring every last onze of profit from its production.
The loch's bounty will contribute to Ala Mhigo's enrichment, whilst easing the burden on the Bull's aching shoulders─just as Your Grace desired.
A deal is struck, then!
<sigh> I fear it will be many years before I feel comfortable taking part in such negotiations.
But I shall not complain. We have piqued Lolorito's interest and secured his invaluable expertise.Thank you, Forename. I could not have done it without you.
Our course is decided. I shall return to the palace and have my ministers begin work on implementing the particulars of the plan.
If I could prevail upon you one more time, Forename, I would ask that you convey the details of our negotiations to Commander Hext on your return to Ala Mhigo.
My thanks again. Together, we have laid the groundwork for an endeavor which promises to benefit the peoples of Ala Mhigo and Ul'dah both.
Forename! You're back! What did Nanamo─ Oh! Sorry... Are you allowed to talk about your audience with the sultana?
So...Raubahn says he's going to return to Ul'dah...but she isn't sure he wants to.
Hmph. Tell us something we don't know... But I'm pleased to hear she's committed to helping our refugees come home.
And this plan to revitalize the Saltery does make a lot of sense. Quite how you convinced her to seek Lolorito's help is another question. After all that has happened, he is the very last person I would expect her to turn to for advice.
But on a more practical note─Lyse, assuming the interim government elects to accept Ul'dah's proposal, I have one caveat I should like you to include in the bargain.
Ala Mhigo must be permitted to cover a portion of the investment. We have a fortune at our disposal, after all, and allowing Ul'dah to provide the entirety of the capital will afford Lolorito too much control.
Honestly, Alphinaud─it's like Kugane never happened. What exactly does a ruthless profiteer have to do to earn your trust?
But yes, you do make a good point. First things first, though, we need to discuss this proposal with the Saltery's residents.
Wiscar─how do you fancy explaining the sultana's plan to your grandfather? I'd like to hear what Watt thinks of the idea before agreeing to anything.
Right away, Commander. Would you mind coming along, Forename? I might need you to fill in the details.
Then I shall come as well. Should Watt wish to discuss figures, my knowledge of the nation's finances may prove useful.
Well bugger me... We've never had the coin or the hands to put the place back to how it was─but it sounds like that's about to change!
...There's just one small wrinkle in your plan: it doesn't account for all the nasties queuing up to eat anyone who goes near the shore.
The king used to send soldiers to cull the buggers, but the imperials weren't about to help the likes of us.
Don't worry, Grandad─we'll take care of all that. Commander Hext has been talking about starting up regular patrols, and I'm sure she'd assign me to the loch if I asked.
I'd appreciate that, Wiscar, my lad, truly I would. So, does this mean you've gotten better with that blade of yours?
I've been training, aye...but mostly to kill imperials.
You've some experience hunting monsters, don't you, Forename? Think you could cast an eye over a few of the local beasties and teach me how to deal with 'em?
Let's not waste any time, then! I'll see you by the loch!
Whilst you are busy attending to the local fauna, I shall have Master Watt explain to me exactly what is required to restore the Saltery to its former glory. Good hunting!
Right then, Forename. I've got a spyglass here you can use to take a closer look at these pests. Once you've got their measure, you can tell me what to do, and we'll see how well I get on!
Right then, Forename. I've got a spyglass here you can use to take a closer look at these pests. Once you've got their measure, you can tell me what to do, and we'll see how well I get on!
Ah, looks like you've found a yabby. They say hitting their shell's like smacking a rock. Any suggestions?
Vulnerable under the head, are they? R-Right then! Wish me luck!
I... All right, then. I was hoping there'd be more of a trick to it, but brute force it is!
Thanks, Forename. I did just as you told me and the wavekin went down like a sack of popotoes! Let's find something else!
I think I can handle the yabbies now, so we should try something different. What else is out there...?
I think I can handle the yabbies now, so we should try something different. What else is out there...?
Ugh...a phoebad. How do I defeat one of those?
Inside its head, is it? I'll try to stab it right between the eyes, then!
As hard...as I can. Well, simple strategies are often the best! Here goes!
<pant> <pant>It's not easy...fighting with the liberator of Ala Mhigo watching your every...move. But I got the job done.
Thanks for the advice, Forename! I feel a lot better prepared for my patrols now.
Anyroad, we should head back to the Saltery before Grandad starts to worry I've been snipped into pieces and fed to a yabby's hatchlings.
I see you've returned in one piece. Dealt with those beasties then, did you?
Aye, fought them myself...after a bit of instruction from Forename here, like. Once I've shared what I've learned with the others, we should have no trouble keeping the shoreline clear.
Good lad. A fine young man you've become, Wiscar. A fine young man, indeed.
Too often of late, I hear tales of folk over in the city, drunk on victory and hungry for revenge, their heads stuck firmly in the past.
But we need to set our sights on the future─on things which'll improve our lot. Things like getting the Saltery ready to welcome our long-lost countrymen.
It seems Wiscar has the Saltery's security well in hand. I, meanwhile, have discussed the next steps with Master Watt, and completed my inspection of the site.
With a little work, the vacant buildings here could be made into very presentable dwellings.
Message from General Aldynn!
Apologies for the interruption, miss, but the General would speak with you at your earliest convenience!
Do not feel obliged to wait around on my account. I will remain here to hammer out the finer details with Watt, and act as an intermediary with our business partners in Ul'dah. You should go.
General Aldynn asked that you wait for him by the main gate in the Ala Mhigan Quarter. My apologies again, miss! Fare you well!
Apologies for the wait.
People are screaming for the Butcher's blood again. No sooner have we broken up one mob than another forms. Thankfully, all have been amenable to reason...thus far.
But it is no concern of yours.
We must speak of the men Arenvald and his comrades apprehended in the Peaks.
By their uniforms, the captives were first judged to be imperial troops...but after further investigation, their true identities came to light.
I daresay you remember Yuyuhase and Laurentius─the fugitives who conspired with Captain Ilberd in the Crystal Braves' betrayal.
Aye, well...it would seem they followed him all the way to the Wall. It was they who orchestrated the slaughter of the Resistance fighters prior to the Griffin's infernal ritual.
Were it in your hands, how would you punish these men?
Hear, hear. There is no more fitting sentence for the perpetrators of such a massacre. And that is but one of their crimes.
You would spare these animals? Yours is a more merciful brand of justice than mine.
In any event, I thank you for your honesty. When the time comes for the Alliance to pass judgment, I'll see that your opinion is heard.
Well, that concludes our business here, but there is more I would say. Walk with me.
I bear a share of the blame for Ilberd's atrocities. Had I openly supported the cause of Ala Mhigan liberation, he might not have felt driven to do what he did...
Things could have been different, and I'm sorry they aren't.
But even after all that has happened, my homeland is free. With the Scions and the Alliance at their side, my countrymen have reclaimed what many thought lost forever.
Under her new leadership, I have every confidence that Ala Mhigo will emerge from the shadow of the Empire and rise once more to greatness.
Which means my work here is done. Soon, I will return to Ul'dah, and take my place at the sultana's side.
Father...
I'll not deny there's a part of me that wants to stay...
The same part that contemplated renouncing my rank and joining you as a wandering sellsword.
But I pledged my blade to Nanamo. And I will not betray that oath.
Is this truly what you want, Father?
It is. Ever has my sword been hers to command, and ever shall it remain.
Thank you for lending an ear. When all the rest are clamoring for me to stay, I trust you'll send me on my way.
That took longer than I intended, but at least you know where I stand.
Now that's settled...Arenvald─what news?
We may have a problem, sir.
A group of Ananta has arrived at the main gates. And I don't mean the Vira. These are Qalyana─the ones that summoned the primal.
They're insisting they be allowed to attend the council. Lyse is trying to reason with them, but she may need help...
Hmm... An invitation was extended to all of the native beast tribes...but we assumed the Qalyana would refuse it out of hand.
We had best go and see for ourselves. Pipin, take command of our forces and be ready for battle.
Forename─you've dealt with these Qalyana before. I'd have you at my side.
Forename! Raubahn! Gods, it's good to see you...
Ah! The ssslayer has come.
We have not forgotten how you sssinned againssst the Lady of Blisss...but we did not come here to shed blood.
You claim to ssseek harmony with all who call Gyr Abania home. If thisss is truly your wish, you will welcome usss as envoys of the Ananta!
It is our wish, and you are welcome. But we cannot condone the summoning of primals.
If you want to enter the palace, I must ask that you first surrender any crystal jewelry. You have my word that it will all be returned to you when the meeting is over.
...We will do as you asssk─but you will not have our weapons. We are not ssso foolish as to place ourssselves entirely at the mercy of our tormentors...
