Rest assured we have already handpicked one for you. Not that there were many to choose from, mind you. Jehantel has scarcely commenced his lessons, after all.
Now, with times as they are, every man of us is precious. Therefore, before we commit one of ours to your cause, I would test your fitness to undertake this expedition.
What would you have me do?
Demonstrate your martial prowess─simple as that. Enraged treants have been plaguing travelers in the Twelveswood. I would have you and your companion-to-be deal with them.
Lest you worry, we've assigned you someone capable. I shall have him join you presently at Amarissaix's Spire, near to where said treants lurk. Good fortune to you, Captain.
With that, we are come to your part in this, Forename. 'Tis my desire that you accompany Sanson on his expedition.
I request this of you because I know no finer bard. Furthermore, I believe that you will gain something from this experience.
But first, there is the matter of the trial. I find myself dubious as to whether the Gods' Quiver actually mean to lend Sanson a bard. Pray aid him in dispatching the treants, Forename.
The creatures are fearsome foes. I would be heartened for your assistance.
I shall go on ahead to Amarissaix's Spire. Pray join me there at your earliest convenience.
I was caught unawares... B-Be careful!
The famous Forename Surname, I take it?
You're not half bad, sister.
“Not half bad”!? Forename is a prodigy, I'll have you know! That's why I gave her the charm, kupo!
Guydelot! What is the meaning of this interference? They were in the midst of a trial, for gods' sake!
Don't have a fit, old man. It isn't good for your heart. Besides, I wouldn't call it interference, seeing as I'm part of this merry band.
It's true, kupo! I was present when he received his orders. And I was also present when he said, “What a bloody bother! I hope they botch the trial!”
Aye, well, I did say those words, I'll not deny it. But seeing Forename in action has changed my mind.
I'm Guydelot, of the Gold Bulls. I don't care for fame and fortune, and I couldn't give two farts about this Dirge of Deathlike Doomness you're after.
I do, however, have an interest in song. I can't pass over the chance to travel with an exceptional bard like yourself. And I promise you won't be poorer for my fine company.
Well, things have certainly taken an interesting turn. Know that Guydelot is among my most promising students. I can vouch for his ability.
Ability, aye, but naught else.
I know about you, Guydelot the Spent. Your reputation as a troublemaker precedes you. You treat authority with contempt, shirk duty at every turn, and make a general nuisance of yourself.
That they sent the likes of you means that they want me to fail! My hopes of finding the Ballad of Oblivion... All up in smoke...
Grrr, say it straight to my face, will you? Jehantel, do we really have to travel with this pompous prat? Forename and I alone will do just fine! We don't need anyone else!
Without me, you say? Who do you think is the driving force behind the expedition!?
<sigh> I suppose beggars can't be choosers. Forename, I must return to Quiver's Hold with word of the trial's success. Please join me there.
Guydelot may have his failings, but he is not a bad fellow. Truth be told, I had intended to introduce him to you as well.
To that end, I asked Pukno Poki to seek him out, only to have him appear as our Quiverman. Fate works in strange ways, does it not?
A pity he and Sanson do not see eye to eye. Their personalities are simply too far apart, and the gulf will not be easily bridged.
Though it will be a burden upon you, in watching over these two disparate souls, doubt not but that you will grow as a bard.
But come, let us hurry back to Gridania. 'Tis too early still to leave those two unchaperoned.
We have done as bade and culled the enraged treants. I trust you have no objections to the expedition.
None whatsoever. Nor do I have any doubt that Guydelot shall be of great help to you. I shall look forward to good tidings in the days to come.
Of great help indeed...
At any rate, 'tis now official─we may proceed with the expedition. Let us depart for the Holy See at once. Lest you wonder, I have already secured us passage into Ishgardian territory.
And remember: we have a golden chance to raise the standing of bards within our nation. Let us succeed in our mission and find the Ballad of Oblivion!
Any stiffer, and he's like to snap in half.
It'll be a grueling journey, but so long as you work together, you're bound to succeed, kupo!
So it is to Ishgard, then. Safe travels, my friend. I shall await your return, all the while looking forward to hearing such songs as are born of your experience.
First, I shall make inquiries here in Ishgard. As for you, Forename, pray rest and recover your strength. We will likely have need of it on the road.
Godsdammit, man! Here we are in a new place, one that hasn't been open to visitors for over a decade, and you've got your nose buried in a bloody book!
Take a moment to get a feel for the city, I say! And to that end, I'm off to a tavern to get a feel for the locals─the young and female sort. Heh heh heh!
Gah, that Guydelot is worse than useless! Instead of helping with our inquiries, he spends all his time drinking and wenching, and now his indiscretion is about to get him─and us─into trouble! The gods see fit to bless him with a gift for song, but what does he do but use it to satisfy his base urges!?
<sigh> Pray forgive me my outburst. 'Tis towards Guydelot, and not you, that I should be giving vent to my annoyance. Allow me to explain the situation.
Apparently, a maiden told Guydelot that her sweetheart is fairer of voice than he. That was enough to throw him into a fit of jealousy, and he rushed out of the city seeking to settle matters with this sweetheart, who happens to be a knight.
I am sure you can appreciate how swiftly this could descend into disaster. We must stop Guydelot before he does something stupid and gets us banished from Ishgard. Please come with me to Falcon's Nest and talk some sense into the fool!
The knight in question is currently on patrol. Upon learning of this, Guydelot continued north into the wilderness to find him.
I must add that the knight and his unit are late to return. It may be simply a coincidence...or it may be our witless friend has done something we'll live to regret.
Whichever it is, we had best go and see for certain.
I shall look for Guydelot around Gorgagne Mills. Pray focus your search on Twinpools, to the north and west.
Well, if it isn't Forename! Come to join the revelry, I shouldn't doubt.
The situation here's under control, but there's plenty more fiends to go around. Why don't you try checking beyond the rock to the north?
Your sense of timing's superb, sister. Late enough to be stylish, but not too late to be useless.
Forename! What has happened!?
...Guydelot did what!? Why would he do such a dangerous thing!?
Ser Alamenain, I presume. I've got something here for you─a nameday present from your sweetheart.
