We can push off at any time. Mind the gap when you board.
Do you remember what I said to you before all this?
That life is a series of journeys. That you must be true to yourself, for indeed, there's no telling what awaits.
I don't know about you, but I certainly didn't expect to behold such sights. The future is as fluid as the water beneath us, truly.
Tell me, my friend. Have you ever wished to be reunited with someone who has passed away?
I have. I do. But I think... Above all else, I wish that they had lived.
If only for one more day. One more day... A joyous one, if I could choose.
I did all that I could to make it happen. I tried everything. Spared nothing.
In that manner, I was able to keep some few souls out of harm's way. But so, so many were beyond my power to save.
What would I have done then, had I this...?
And you─can you imagine yourself spending eternity here, knowing no loss?
'Twas nice to chat with you again, my friend. It feels as though it has been some time.
Having met Endless like Euclase, I feel I've come to understand Sphene a little better.
Anyone would wish those dear to them a long and happy future, and she bears the burden of this desire for all her subjects.
Yet as Krile said, we too have people we cannot lose...
Come, Forename. We can get to the fountain via yonder bridge.
Now that I look at it closely, the clock has no hands. On account of there being no need to keep track of time, perhaps.
Finished talking to the locals, have you? I'd be keen to hear your impressions.
Krile and Erenville are still out and about, it seems.
So, how was it? What are your impressions of those you met?
It was great! Everyone was so happy, just talking to them made me happy too.
What about you, Forename?
Sweethearts reunited? That's a miracle!
While it is a miracle after a fashion, the system strives to make such encounters possible.
If you meet someone you know, it's probably not by chance. The terminals hold information on unfulfilled longings, and use them to orchestrate reunions like Euclase's.
I see... That the terminals can do this is impressive indeed. But there is one thing I do not understand.
According to Euclase, his beloved passed away decades after he did, yet they appeared to be of like age.
Ah, yes. People are not necessarily recreated as they were when they passed away.
The appearance of an Endless, I speculate, reflects the happiest period in their life.
Is that the case for you, then? Not that I can tell how old you are, as slowly as your people age.
I'm not sure, to be honest. I have so many happy times, it's hard to know which one applies.
I'm insufferably inquisitive. Whether it's nature or technology, I can't help but want to learn more about the world around me.
You might say that discovery is what gives me joy. It made me happy in life...and may have been a blessing afterwards.
The other Endless are content with what they have here, you see. They don't develop the urge to leave.
But I was so determined to see the world again that I taught myself how to gain control of a vessel and ventured outside.
Heh, you're a proper rebel!
Well, that's enough about me for now. While we wait for Krile and Elene'shpya, I have a favor to ask of you.
As you may have noticed, most of the fountains here aren't running. That's because, despite its shiny appearance, this city is centuries old and everything is dreadfully run-down.
The fountains apparently used to put on magnificent shows, and I was hoping that we could get them working again.
Giving the control units a dose of aether should be enough to restore the circuits and switch them on. But being an Endless, I'm unable to do that.
I realize this is a selfish request, but at the last, I'd like to treat the people here to the display.
Just leave it to us! I'd love to see the show myself!
Thank you. The control units are built into the surrounding lampposts. If you tend to a few of them each, you'll be done before you know it.
Once the fountains are fixed, we can round up Elene'shpya and Krile and head to the Hydro Terminal together.
So the time is nigh... Come, let us set to it.
The fountain shows are supposedly magnificent. Perhaps they'll impress even my fussy little bunbun.
This must be the control.
It looks like ordinary stone, but inside it's electrope. Talk about confusing.
We've switched on the circuits like you asked.
Thank you, everyone. Hopefully this does the trick.
Oh!
Amazing...
