The friend, I take it? Sorry to have kept you both waitin'.
Unruly wildlife's not the only source of recent distress, I'm afraid. Also been a rise in robberies targetin' merchants. As a result, we've got a lengthy list of folks wantin' to use our rroneek.
Which is why I have to ask that you stop at Sheshenewezi Springs.
That's fine, of course, but why haven't the Dustwatch dealt with this banditry?
Kemakka and his fellows are doin' what they can, but they reckon the bandits are operatin' as a gang. Roundin' 'em all up's easier said than done.
If you have anythin' of value, you'll want to take care.
Thank you for the warning. We'll be sure to stay vigilant.
Right, then. If you're ready to set off, I'll see you on your way.
This is your first time riding, yes? Even so, I can't imagine it will prove difficult for you.
Ready? Then saddle up. Your friend seems to know the way, so I won't bother givin' you directions.
This is your first time, so let's take it slow. Take care not to let it toss you.
I continue to be struck by how much Shaaloani has changed.
That town we just visited wasn't even here several years ago...
With few reliable opportunities to replenish water supplies, travelers turned to nopalitenders.
Not just for the water in their stems, mind. Their fruits are also said to be both nutritious and delicious.
See that hole there? Some might hope to find water there, but it is brimming with ceruleum.
The eruption of flames from within make for a spectacle, inspiring cautionary tales of people who wandered too close.
The Whalaqee, meanwhile, show great reverence to ceruleum and its blue flames...
...But that is a discussion for another time. We're here.
A good thing for these rroneek.
No sooner did we dismount than the next passengers are already on their way. They really are short on rroneek.
Now, then...
This is Sheshenewezi Springs, perhaps the busiest town here in Shaaloani. People travel here from all over hoping to find their fortune.
The change come to Hhusatahwi was surprising enough, but this is no less impressive. They've achieved a great deal in the three years I've been away.
The station is on the eastern side of town, but there should still be time before the next train departs.
If you don't mind, I'd like to pay visit to an old friend of my mentor.
Iyaate is her name, and if she learned that I passed through without saying a word, she'd never let me hear the end of it.
She set out from our village some ten years ago, hoping to earn coin as she traveled about Tural. I can but assume she too came here seeking greater opportunities.
In any case, let us see if we can find her. Her blue hair should make her easy to spot.
