Why, you're...
I'm Vow Wuk Lamat of Tuliyollal. Thank you for extending us an invitation to Queen Sphene's funeral.
We are honored, truly. I had seen you before from a distance, but never had the pleasure.
I am Gossan, former chief aide to the queen. Since her passing, I have been responsible for administering affairs of state.
Um, can we get our flowers here?
Yes, Your Majesty. The flowers are being handed out at the counter yonder, alongside the regulators.
What? We need to wear regulators for the funeral?
Ah, rest assured they are not a requirement. We're aware your people do not use them.
You see, people in the Alexandria of old wore tokens of mourning upon their persons when attending funerals.
As such tokens were black, it was suggested that we might wear regulators painted the same color.
We've yet to produce enough for everyone, but we're distributing them as we are able.
I see...
Yet regulator or no, the important thing is that we remember Queen Sphene. Remember her and her kindness as you make an offering of your flower.
I will.
The proceedings will soon begin in this plaza. Please take your place once you have your flower.
Although we are gathered here for the same reason, we hail from different lands.
Some were born and raised in the Alexandria of old, while others came to us from Tuliyollal.
It was from this union of diverse peoples that a new Alexandria was born─the only home that our younger generation knows.
How did we overcome the barriers between us? What moved us to join hands in common purpose beneath crackling skies?
You know the answer. We survived─we thrived─because Queen Sphene brought us together.
Inspired and encouraged by her boundless kindness, we strove to be better, for ourselves as well as those around us.
And in Her Majesty's absence...there is a sadness beyond words. Yet we must─we will remember her. Remember all the good that she has done for us.
So let us pray, as the people of the old kingdom once did, for the peaceful repose of the departed.
And let us keep our beloved queen forever in our hearts, that her memory might guide us unto the morrow.
Would that I could find solace in my own words...
