Lady Minfilia!
<sigh> Very well...
Though I am quite sure you need no reminding, mayhap a brief summary of the situation would help to clarify your thoughts on this matter. As you know, the Grand Companies are all-encompassing organizations empowered to call upon the martial, economic, and technological resources of their respective city-states in times of strife.
There are presently three such organizations in Eorzea: the Maelstrom of Limsa Lominsa, the Order of the Twin Adder of Gridania, and the Immortal Flames of Ul'dah.
Serving a Grand Company means serving the nation to which it belongs. You will be charged with its defense, and tasked with advancing its cause.
In return for your faithful service, you will be furnished with various rewards, some of which may well prove useful to you in your other endeavors.
If you are agonizing over which of the Grand Companies best deserves your loyalty, be at ease─the commitment you make this day need not be permanent. Should you wish to shift your allegiance at a later date, you are entitled to do so. And yet...I concede that it is no small choice you face...
Ah! A thought occurs to me! You will, of course, recall that the three city-states are planning to hold remembrance services.
Well, as part of the proceedings, I am given to understand that the leader of each Grand Company will deliver an address.
Hearing these addresses ought to help you make an informed decision. What say you, my dear officers?
A fine suggestion!
You are as wise as you are beautiful, my lady!
Very well! Let Forename hear our leaders speak, then return here with her decision.
We eagerly await your answer!
I know full well that adventurers are by their nature a liberty-loving breed, and not best suited to the discipline of military service, but I strongly urge you to join a Grand Company nonetheless. While the promise of reward is enticing in itself, it is not the only benefit.
You are possessed of great power, Forename, and with it you are capable of doing untold good. Yet know that great power is wont to attract attention─not all of it friendly.
There will be those who wish you ill, and you must needs be on the lookout for them. Yet however vigilant you are, you are but one woman. In the midst of a Grand Company, however, you will be one woman amongst many─a friend amongst friends. Your achievements will be shared, and so will the danger. I can think of no better arrangement.
Of course, joining one organization need not mean leaving another. I hope that we can continue to rely upon your aid─the Twelve know that we will have need of it in the days ahead.
The Grand Companies seek to protect their own nations. We Scions, on the other hand, seek to preserve the future of Eorzea as a whole. Similar, yet not quite the same.
Now then, I expect that you will be afield more often in the future.
As such, I would have you carry this linkpearl with you at all times. It will allow us to stay in touch regardless of location.
Eorzea is changing, Forename, and you have the power to help shape it anew.
None can say what the morrow will bring, but so long as we believe in ourselves, there is naught we cannot achieve.
Now, it is time you made ready for your journey. Before you depart, be sure to speak to Tataru. She will apprise you as to where and when the remembrance services are due to take place.
I, um... I'm sorry about all the attention you're getting, Forename... I might have sung your praises a little too loudly...and often...to a few too many people. Ahem. Next time, I'll be sure to hold my tongue─literally, if necessary.
Anyway, I expect you want to know where and when the remembrance services are taking place?
If all goes to plan, Gridania's Grand Company, the Order of the Twin Adder, will hold the first of the three services, and Elder Seedseer Kan-E-Senna will deliver her address at Mih Khetto's Amphitheatre.
I should probably mention at this point that due to the organizational challenges involved in assembling all of the involved parties, it's possible that the order of the services might change... Still, there's not much we can do about that, so make Gridania your first port of call.
Next, you'll need to go to Ul'dah, where Flame General Raubahn Aldynn will be addressing the masses at the Royal Promenade. Oh, and it's rumored there's to be a special guest! How exciting.
Last but not least, you must make your way to the Stateroom in Limsa Lominsa, where Maelstrom Chief Admiral Merlwyb Bloefhiswyn will be giving her address.
The room is accessible via the Admiral's Lift. Identify yourself to the sentry, Zanthael, and he will admit you. Got all that?
Well, off you go, then. I hope you find the remembrance services suitably educational! I suggest visiting the city-states in my prescribed order, though with your record of impeccable timing and luck, the schedule may well change in favor of your preferred travel plans. Farewell!
I lost my son to the Calamity.
The three Seedseers are all together!
Some say you couldn't take a step without stumbling over a body.
Our forebears were once strangers in the Twelveswood.
Fearful of the greenwrath, they hid themselves in the dark recesses of the earth. Yet they dreamed of basking in the dappled sunlight of the forest.
Through great effort, they proved their worth to the elementals, and were granted a place beneath the boughs. So it was that Gridania was born, some five centuries ago.
Working hand in hand, the Hyur and the Elezen settlers sowed the seeds of our civilization. And soon they were joined by folk of all races.
So nourished by the waters of unity and blessed by the light of the Matron, Gridania flourished into the great nation it is today.
