Heh heh heh...
Th-That head! The G-G-Great...G-G-G-G-G-G-Gourd!?
Naughty children ill deserve to join in the festivities. They should be happy as decorations, to serve as an example for any who would follow in their footsteps.
M-My lady! How dread─er, I mean, pleasant it is to see you! Dare I ask why you grace us with your presence?
I caught wind of a voidsent disturbance and came here to investigate. When I heard your voices, I knew something was afoot.
Heh heh... I must say, I am quite pleased that you see the merit in my approach to All Saints' Wake.
Yet something must be done about the other beasts that have crept into the city. Let us give them the same treatment and continue enjoying this unhallowed season on our own terms.
That wretch reminded me of myself, long ago. For but a twist of fate, I might even now be adorning the streets of Gridania by its side...
With your help, rounding up our reckless kin should prove to be a simple matter. Let us make this All Saints' Wake an occasion to remember for those who dwell in the light and shadow alike.
If you sight any errant ghouls, perform the spell I demonstrated earlier.
In so doing, we shall convince the residents of Gridania that the source of their supposed nightmares was naught but a cluster of mundane pumpkins.
This wand possesses the transformative power you require. Simply swing it about in a grandiose manner and point it at your target.
Once the charms have been cast, I shall collect the pumpkins. I understand they are quite delicious when baked in pie... Heh heh...
All Saints' Wake is come again... What wickedness is in store for us this year?
Just when I was getting the hang of being the life of the party instead of the death of it... Let's wrap this up quickly, lest this year's All Saints' Wake be remembered as a disaster.
I sense something sinister lurking deeper in these fields...
...As well as a trail heading to the east. Perhaps towards the market or the Lancers' Guild.
Splitting up will be the easiest way to end this quickly. I'll escort the botanist from earlier back here and deal with whatever still haunts the Growery.
I shall use the opportunity to convince her that what she witnessed before was nothing but an overzealous pumpkin. That should put her heart at ease.
I will leave the rest of Gridania to you. Once the voidsent have been verily vegetated, meet me at Mih Khetto's Amphitheatre so we can deliver my master news of our success.
Now, let the show begin!
