Oh, that's just great, that is. Me mind's playin' tricks on me now. “Look, Grenoldt! Someone's come to visit ye at the bottom o' the bleedin' ocean!”
Or might be as yer a ghost, eh? Go on, foul shade, feast yerself on me rotten soul...
I've got no use for it. A craftsman what can't craft is more pointless than a sea slug with a domin' hammer. An' that's an insult to bloody sea slugs...
I've got no use for it. A craftsman what can't craft is more pointless than a sea slug with a domin' hammer. An' that's an insult to bloody sea slugs...
...Eh? Ye wouldn't be tryin' to raise me spirits now, would ye, spirit? Not what ye'd expect from a servant o' the netherworld...
...What's that supposed to mean? Not impressed with what ye see, lass?
Aye, well...I may have let meself go a bit. This was meant to be me underwater sanctuary─a place where I could concentrate on me work, far from the distractions o' the outside world...
Er... Might be as we crossed paths back in the Crystarium, but I don't reckon we've been formally introduced.
Name's Grenoldt. An' this here's meant to be me underwater sanctuary─a place where I can give meself over to me work, far from the distractions o' the outside world...
...An' yet, here ye stand. Now what's so damned important that ye'd dive all the way down to the bottom o' the bleedin' Tempest to bother me?
Ah... The Ondo's lamp...
Gods curse me empty head! I've not so much as made a start!
I'm worth less than a sea slug... Nay, the slime left by a sea slug. Me delivery date's long past, me workbench is untouched... An' I call meself a bleedin' artisan!
Ye've heard their beliefs, have ye? Bringin' light to them ruins'll be an act of deep religious an' cultural significance!
An' it was my privilege as a craftsman to be tasked with providin' a ritual instrument worthy o' the occasion. But I just...can't...bloody well...
GAAAH! Me mind's a bleedin' blank! It's like I've pissed away me last drop of inspiration!
Tell me ye've got summat to show me─summat as'll give me muse a right good kick up the arse...?
The Ondo want to honor the comin' o' these ancients, so their answerin' light's got to blaze with the right kind o' brightness.
Like...like the spark o' life caught in a crystal. But just bein' sparkly's not enough─it's got to dance with joy an' sorrow an' a sense o' hardship endured... Ye know what I mean!?
Like...like the spark o' life caught in a crystal. But just bein' sparkly's not enough─it's got to dance with joy an' sorrow an' a sense o' hardship endured... Ye know what I mean!?
Like...like the spark o' life caught in a crystal. But just bein' sparkly's not enough─it's got to dance with joy an' sorrow an' a sense o' hardship endured... Ye know what I mean!?
I've let the Ondo down, aye... But more'n that I've let meself down. Might as well go back to mendin' kettles...
...Wh-What's that ye've got there!?
Such strikin' beauty... It shines with heartache an' laughter an' the transience o' life, like the turmoil o' history made manifest!
Aye, I can see the brilliance o' the crystal's legacy! Ahhh...ye'd never capture such a gleam, not if ye labored a hundred years...
But bugger me if I don't mean to try! Where're me tools, gods damn ye!? I must set to work before the feelin' fades!
I can feel it! A vision formin' in me mind! Step aside, lass, an' let me itchin' hands get to work!
...An' done!
I've taken the wonders that crystal showed me, an' channeled 'em into a new shape what befits the Ondo's spiritual character.
Not a bad job, if I do say so meself.
...An' to think, I was this close to hangin' up me hammer after studyin' the craft o' them ancients.
I've been across the length an' breadth o' Norvrandt, an' gobbled up every scrap o' craftin' wisdom what I could find.
But no matter which technique I tried, me work was jus' no comparison. I couldn't even figure out how they put them damn buildings together.
A mystery for the ages─that's what drew me here in the first place. I built me workshop, got the forges burnin'...then lost me bleedin' will to craft.
Thank the gods for that crystal o' yers, or I might never have gotten it back.
I won't pry into yer business, but I reckon yer little miracle there has been through the kind o' journey they sing songs about. The echoes o' the memory it holds jus' speak directly to yer heart...
Aye, I can still feel 'em coursin' through me! The inspiration's not fadin' away─it's wellin' up stronger an' stronger!
Give me the chance, an' I reckon I can weave the crystal's saga into other things as well!
...But bugger me, I'd almost forgotten the Ondo's commission. If ye could drag that lamp over to Tolshs Aath for me, I'll stay here an' dream up new armaments for ye to try.
...What is it that you have there?
...The sssacred lamp! Then the finless one has kept his promise...
My people tell me of the many deeds you have performed in the name of aiding the Cups. And now you come to me, bearing the light we had almost surrendered hope of ever ssseeing...
We can doubt your purity no longer─your arrival was the will of the ancients!
Yes, the time for fear has passed. We shall take the lamp, and unveil its austere illumination upon the Walls of the Forgotten.
Gather there with your companions, and we shall ssspeak again once our prayers have been offered.
O stewards of the Ondo... We offer up our light in answer...
That crystal you showed the artisan...
Was it...? Did it belong to one of my friends?
I try to give you a measure of privacy... No one wants a spirit looking over their shoulder every moment of the day.
So tell me, if you would. How did you come across that crystal?
It was Branden's, then...
Strange that I should learn such things now, after they're long gone. They were fine friends, every one of them...
I didn't expect death to teach me so much.
About them, about Seto─about you. About the hope that hides at the heart of this world.
I've never been one for idle chitchat, but if by some miracle I could see them all again, I doubt I'd ever stop talking...
I'm grateful I got to bend your ear, at least. And just for that, I reckon I'll stick with you...to the very end.
Apologies─we were a little late to the gathering.
It seems we've succeeded in gaining their trust.
The delay wasn't exactly welcome, but at least our many hands made light work.
And they seemed especially impressed with your contribution. Our hero, indeed.
Y'shtola was telling us those structures may date back to the age of the Ascians.
An Ascian homeland...
Despite his many protestations, I never quite believed Emet-Selch was telling the truth.
Nor I. But there is no denying the evidence before our eyes. Clearly, this was once a great city...
...A home they would see restored, no matter how many tens of thousands of years it takes.
It's a hollow dream, when you think about it. Even if they manage to rejoin all the worlds, they'll never bring back the ones who were lost.
But would I have done any different...?
Are you...? How are you feeling?
You have completed your devotions?
Yesss... To the honored ancientsss have we offered up our prayers and our gratitude. You, too, have our thanks.
Might we trouble thee then to tell us more of the illuminated land of which thou didst lately speak?
To the west of here lies a great trench. Some days ago, a light appeared in that endlesss darknesss.
Curiousss, we ventured closer...and discovered in the depths an entire city.
The buildings we spied were akin to our own everlasting abodes. Impossibly so.
We understood at once─the ancients had risen. There could be no doubt.
Taken with terror, we retreated to the Cupsss, and I decreed that none should enter the trench until such time as we received a sssign.
Might it still be possible to reach this city of the ancients?
Hm... With no water to drown you, a finless one could now travel there, yesss.
I am convinced you are the sssign for which we have been waiting. My people will show you the way.
Shall we?
