A Hyuran man? We're not exactly rare, you know. Could you be more specific?
...I did spy this one bloke a while back. Didn't get a good look at his face, but it could have been him.
This was beyond the forest, as I recall─along the river, to the west of Tailfeather. I remember thinking he wasn't much of a hunter. The lad was making no effort to cover his tracks, see. That, and he was carrying an axe instead of a bow.
Finished? In that case, I think we've learned everything we can here.
Let's see what the others have found out.
My apologies for our late arrival. We thought it wise to question as many hunters as we could.
Many have made camp in inaccessible locations─ideal for hunting game, not so receiving visitors.
Nevertheless, our time proved well spent. There have been countless sightings of an exceptionally capable Hyuran hunter with whom no one is familiar.
Though none chanced to see the man's face, his height and build match Thancred's description, as does his fighting prowess.
...So you have heard the same tales. Be that as it may, we yet want for conclusive proof...
Mayhap this is unrelated, but I heard a curious tale regarding a Vath trader.
He came to Tailfeather in search of garments fit for a “man of refinement”─which seemed a rather curious description for one of his kind.
...You are implying that Thancred sent a Vath to market in his stead? Why would he not go himself?
Well, if you recall, you yourself emerged from the Lifestream as naked as your nameday. It is a scene I shall never forget─
Is it now?
Well, I was pleased to see you! I-I mean─ It was a simple statement of fact!
It stands to reason that Thancred found himself in the same...predicament.
In any case, if he had dealings with the Vath, they should be able to tell us, no?
Quite right, Krile, quite right...
Well, what are we waiting for? For all we know, Thancred could be waiting for us in Loth ast Vath!
We must go and see the Vath right away. Come along, everyone! Come along!
<click> <click> Great hunters, we welcome you once more to Loth ast Vath. What do you seek this day?
We seek a man. A man with whom we are told you may have had certain dealings.
...How curious. The hunters tire of godly sport and pursue mortal prey?
No, no, he is not prey, but a friend long missing.
<click> <click> Good, good. He is a friend to the Vath as well, one with whom we have traded many times.
Truly? And you are quite certain it was this man?
There is no doubt. <click> <click> The fleshling clothed in skins came to us from Sohm Al, lost and weak. He offered meat and hides in trade, and in exchange we tended his wounds.
He brought us much flesh, so skilled a hunter he was. Much flesh. When he asked for garments, we were glad to provide them.
And where is he now?
<click> <click> Gone to Loth ast Gnath. Not long ago. When he heard the Onemind had summoned our god once more.
Ravana is returned!?
Vidofnir did say that the Gnath had grown as before. But what could Thancred hope to accomplish by himself?
Honored elder, we thank you for your help. Would that we could repay this kindness ere we depart, but we must hasten to our comrade's side.
Go, great hunters, lest the Gnath claim him as a sacrifice. <click> <click>
Who else could be... Thancred! It could be Thancred! We must hurry!
