A foreign mage, twenty years ago?
Yes, I remember him. It's not often we get visitors from across the salt, let alone those traveling with infants. A baby girl, as I recall.
I only saw him in passing, mind─if anyone were to know more, I'd wager it would be Hunmu Rruk. He was already Xbr'aax Rax then.
A baby girl? It couldn't have been...
Th-Thank you, sir! That information is very helpful.
If you want to know more about that mage, I'd suggest speaking with Hunmu Rruk. He's sure to remember him.
This may be the very lead I was hoping for!
So Hunmu Rruk has been Xbr'aax Rax for over twenty years... That's before I was even born!
Hello again. Do you require assistance?
A foreign mage passed through Iq Br'aax roughly twenty years ago, possibly carrying a young child. Do you remember him?
Why do you ask me this? Who is this man to you?
He may have been my grandfather, and I wish to know what brought him here.
Your grandfather?
Not by blood, but he is family nonetheless.
A foreign mage did indeed visit Iq Br'aax. Master Galuf.
So far as his identity is concerned, I trust you are satisfied?
More than that, however, I cannot say.
Why not?
I simply cannot. I beg your forgiveness and understanding.
Very well, I will not press. Thank you for confirming his presence here─the rest I will discover myself.
Out of more general curiosity, I have another question. They say the Yok Huy once dwelled in these forests. Where was that, exactly?
General curiosity, indeed... But yes. Before they withdrew to Urqopacha some five centuries ago, the Yok Huy claimed Yak T'el as their own.
Many of their architectural remains can be found in the lower forests─the Ja Tiika Heartland.
Then that's where they must have had their visions...
Thank you. That answers much and more.
I understand what it means to long for one's family. So believe me when I say that, though my position forbids me from aiding you further, I wish you nothing but success.
By helping the Third Promise find the golden city, you will surely find the answers to your questions.
Speaking of which, I have a query of my own for you, Forename.
May I request a moment of your company?
Go on. We'll wait for you.
So in order to get my answers, I need to find the golden city...
Well, that was my intent from the first. I'll do everything in my power to make it happen!
Go on and see what Hunmu Rruk needs.
Thank you for obliging me.
First, let us head to the cenote behind this village.
It was my intention to see you off without saying anything, but Mistress Krile's plea has softened my resolve...
As the leader of our community, I am gladdened to see that the Third Promise has surrounded herself with such compassionate and trustworthy companions.
Would you tell me of her journey thus far?
Is that so... It seems the rite has been a source of great learning and growth for Wuk Lamat.
It does me well to hear that.
...My daughter would be about her age.
Girls are rarely born amongst the Xbr'aal. So when she arrived, the village was elated. Such joy I felt when first I held her...and pain when I found her at the bottom of a cenote.
Three years old. An accident, it was said. But I knew better.
She had been pushed.
Though we never caught them, a suspicious figure was seen fleeing towards the Ja Tiika Heartland. Towards Mamook.
Once bitter enemies, the Mamool Ja and Xbr'aal had learned to live in peace...
But who could doubt the intent of such a reprehensible act? By targeting the child who would one day lead her people, the criminal sought to undermine the future of the Xbr'aal.
I was determined not to let them succeed. And so I let the memory of my daughter die in that cenote, and gave her into the care of the one person I knew who could protect her.
...Dawnservant Gulool Ja Ja.
Though she was born to lead the Xbr'aal, fate had a greater plan for Wuk Lamat.
Only the Dawnservant and I know the truth. But I must now take you into my confidence for one reason.
If the villain who attempted to murder my daughter was indeed of Mamook, then rancor towards the Xbr'aal still burns.
I was caught off guard once. I will not suffer the same tragedy again.
And so I ask you, not as the Dawnservant's elector but as a father, to watch over the Third Promise. Defend her from her enemies that may be lurking in shadow. Will you do this for me?
Thank you. From the bottom of my heart.
Will you hear my question and answer me plainly? Address me not as the ruler of Tuliyollal, but a concerned father.
Suffice it to say, this conversation must remain between us. Pray breathe not a word of this to anyone.
Recalling the past has rendered me...emotional.
I require a moment to compose myself. But please, do not keep the Third Promise waiting.
I feel better having spoken with you. My thanks.
Finished speaking with Hunmu Rruk, have you?
You're back! So what did Hunmu Rruk want?
Heh, it's all right, you don't have to say. More importantly, the Ty'iinbek Traverse still isn't clear yet. Something about even more rocks.
Then I think I'll take the opportunity to rest. All that cooking and preparing for it has worn me out...
A nap does sound tempting...
A moment, Promise.
I've come to fetch you. You're welcome to refuse, but know that it would be most unwise.
I'm sure your salted friend has an idea. What do you think?
And they say house cats don't come when called! Follow me, Promise.
What is the meaning of this? And just how far do you plan on taking us?
Hunmu Rruk!?
Bakool Ja Ja, you snake! If you want my keystones so badly, you deal with me and me alone! Leave the elector out of this!
Is that all you think he is? Foolish kitty, this man is the reason we are here.
Take a good look at him. Go on, look. Surely you recognize your real father!
Don't believe us? Then ask your trusted sellsword─she heard it straight from the old man's mouth!
Is it true? Is Hunmu Rruk my...
...Your silence says it all.
Now that you understand the situation, let's see those keystones. I'll even let you fight for them─just you and me.
If that adventurer attempts to interfere...
I'll kill the old man myself!
You despicable, heartless fiend...
Kinsman or no, I won't stand for you taking hostages!
Come on, then! You want a fight? I'll give you a fight!
Oooh, such heroic caterwauling, Promise. I'm shaking.
Guard our hostage well. We wouldn't want to tempt any thoughts of rescue.
By the by, house cat. They've been instructed to put down Papa dearest when you lose. Hopefully he's settled his affairs.
Don't worry. I'm not losing to the likes of him.
Well, what are you waiting for, you blessed bastards!? It's two against one! Don't tell me you're scared!
I know I didn't hear you right...
You dare call us cowards!?
You think this weakling could hurt me!?
Foreign scum! Who are you to mock me!?
I'll kill you─kill you─kill you all!
Hey, eyes on me. The house cat, remember?
I'll say it again: I'm not losing to the likes of you!
I'm going to become Dawnservant─and I will protect my people!
Come, you mangy house cat, so I can rip you to pieces!
I'll cut you to shreds!
I'll cut you to shreds!
My magic should be more than enough for Miss Mittens!
I'll make you eat dirt!
No more tricks, Bakool Ja Ja! We're settling this here and now!
Still playing the part of the brave warrior.
Miss Mittens...is no longer amusing me, Brother!
This rite has taught me so much...
About my nation, my people, and myself!
What, can't keep up?
How do you like this?
Heeere kitty, kitty, kitty, kitty, kitty!
I finally understand what it means to live in peace.
To greet each day in safety and happiness.
Irritating pest!
It's time we finished her, Brother.
