Leave this place, outsider.
Oh! My apologies, I was unaware. I thank you, blessed scale bearer, for bringing me word of this gathering.
I shall away to Moxutural Zooj at once.
Whatever Bakool Ja Ja requires of me, I shall happily provide.
What a curious place to gather...
Now that I think on it, why would Bakool Ja Ja grant you his scale...?
Where's Wuk Lamat?
Sorry to keep you waiting!
You invited the Second Promise as well?
<sigh> Lamaty'i. Need I remind you that this rite is a competition?
Whatever advantage you're about to share with me, you ought to utilize to your own benefit. I have barely made headway in communicating with the locals─at this rate, you lead the race to the golden city.
I need your help.
To complete the feat?
No, no. Mamook has a problem I can't solve on my own, and you're the most clever person I know.
I want you to hear the people firsthand, so that we might come up with a way to help them.
Very well. I am at your disposal.
Everyone, thank you for gathering on such short notice! I am Wuk Lamat, Third Promise of Tuliyollal.
Promise? I thought you served Bakool Ja Ja!
You deceived us!?
No. They did not.
The scales they showed you were mine. I entrusted them to the Third Promise and her retinue.
Why honor these outsiders so?
Because Wuk Lamat has won my trust. Now, you will hear her words.
Bakool Ja Ja shared with me the truth about blessed siblings. About the price you pay to conceive them.
As an outsider to your community, it is not my place to judge you or your culture.
Culture is born of the experiences of its people. Of their lives and their land.
But it breaks my heart to know that yours has brought you all so much suffering.
If any here wish to break from the cycle of tragedy that creating blessed siblings demands, I ask that you join us.
Please. I don't want any more of our children to die.
...You think we want this!?
We have no choice! Only blessed siblings can liberate us from our suffering. Without them, we have nothing!
That remains to be seen. Speak with the Third Promise. Share with her your worries and your pain, and together we may find a new way forward.
Together...?
If she is trustworthy...then I will speak with her.
It would be best if you withdrew, my son. Many cannot yet speak freely in your presence.
Let's keep an eye out for Zereel Ja. He wouldn't take kindly to this sort of gathering.
Once we understand everyone's concerns, we'll be better equipped to help them. Let's make sure they feel heard.
An end to blessed siblings...?
I don't know what to think or how to feel about this...
Belief in blessed siblings and the salvation they would bring has sustained me for years and years. But if there's another way...if the Third Promise can truly help us...
I'm sure my son would have preferred to stay, but his presence alone still greatly sways our people's behavior.
