Hmmm......
Ahhh! M-My apologies. I wasn't trying to spy or anything.
Everyone's been talking about the visitors come from Etheirys, and I wanted to see what all the fuss was about.
I was excited at first, but now...now I'm worried.
What if the people of Etheirys refuse to come? What if we can't save them!?
<sigh> It's clear we've made a mess of things.
Oh, but wait! You still haven't visited the domiciles! Once you see them, you'll understand how wonderful the moon truly is, I'm sure of it.
I'll be waiting for you by the teleporter near the entrance. Oh, and the name's Growingway, by the way. See you soon!
You're here! You're really here!
Thank you! Thank you so much, uh...er... Sorry, what should I call you?
Forename Surname, eh? Crikey, even your names are amazing.
Well, Forename, we'll be using this teleporter to enter the residential area.
Whenever you're ready.
Readying the teleporter.
Huh? Access to living quarters restricted due to reconstruction? Then where is it... Oh no!
A private audience, as thou didst request. For reasons I know not...
Just a precaution. I'd rather I didn't have to ask the question at all, but I take my responsibilities very, very seriously.
Do you and your friends, by any chance, find our accommodation wanting? Be honest. Brutally, even.
'Twould be ungracious of me to belittle the efforts of thee and thine.
Lovely sentiment, really, but the disappointment is writ plain on your comrades' faces. It's all the more frustrating since no one will come out and say what they find wanting!
If there are faults in our work, we need to know. We can─we will─do better. But time is not on our side.
The Final Days will wait for no one. If your people are to be saved, we must take quick and decisive action.
This vessel must serve as a home for as many passengers as possible─for far longer than we may like. Which brings me to my request.
Our collaborators on Etheirys are doing what they can to prepare for the voyage. Would you be willing to go and lend them a hand?
Having seen the moon for yourself, you could speak to its many splendors. Learn what else they might require and assuage whatever concerns they have.
Wherefore wouldst thou entrust me with such a task?
How to put it... You're the only one who appears not to be wholly unsatisfied with our work.
Or quite good at pretending that's the case, at least. Calm, collected, tactful to a fault─very particular with your words, too.
You understand that, in the face of great danger, one cannot pursue perfection at the expense of practicality. That difficult choices must often be made for the greater good.
And so fate doth conspire to set my feet upon this path once more...
Come again?
Ah, idle musings. 'Tis no trifle thou dost ask, yet full well do I understand the urgency...and necessity...
I...
Oh, dear me, dear me! I'm terribly sorry for the mix-up!
It's a bit of a malfunction. I hadn't realized the residential quarters were inaccessible, you see...
But you're still in one piece, so all's well that ends well, yes? Won't happen again. I promise!
Gosh, that was embarrassing. I promise to be more careful from now on.
Since the residential quarters are closed for now, I've rerouted the teleporter to allow travel between floors instead. Hopefully it proves useful in the meantime.
<sigh> A shame you couldn't see it, though. You really would've liked it.
Gosh, that was embarrassing. I promise to be more careful from now on.
Since the residential quarters are closed for now, I've rerouted the teleporter to allow travel between floors instead. Hopefully it proves useful in the meantime.
<sigh> A shame you couldn't see it, though. You really would've liked it.
It may not seem like it, but we've been planning for this far longer than I'd care to admit.
Each time we woke up, we'd have long discussions about how to save as many of you as we can. Felt like everyone had an opinion on this or that.
But the one thing we all agreed upon was that the people of Etheirys wouldn't take action to save themselves until it was far too late.
That's why we're striving to make the moon a vibrant, magical place they'd hop at the chance to visit, rather than waiting for the flames of oblivion to get them off their tails and force them to accept our invitation.
The residential quarters may not be up to the necessary standards just yet, but there are plenty of other places worth seeing!
You've already had a look around the Carrotorium, but wait until you see what's waiting for you at the east end of the burrow. Follow me!
Good, you're here. Through this door is Greatest Endsvale!
It was named as such because it's the vale to end all vales. The most beautiful forest you'll ever see.
We understand the people of Etheirys enjoy taking leisurely walks through “natural spaces” and the like, so I'm sure you'll enjoy it.
How about we start with a nice stroll to the fountain? This way!
So, what did you think of the forest? Isn't it positively pleasant? Simply sublime?
You're pulling my tail! You're in the forest right now!
Right you are! Our forest is made of crystals and constructs, dotting the landscape as far as the eye can see.
You really think so? Truly?
Hearing you say that means more to me than you know. Personally, I'd say this place is the pride of the burrow.
Building this place was a challenge, let me tell you. Since we were born here, we've never seen trees in person before, let alone a forest.
The information sent by our collaborators was quite enlightening, but after much deliberation, we decided to use crystalline constructs in place of living trees.
And thanks to our atmospheric circulation system, this place produces air as clean as that you'd find in a forest on Etheirys!
The fountain here behind us, powered by the rather large crystal adorning its top, plays a vital role in supplying us with fresh water.
Much time and effort was spent making it the most spherical of spheres, and I daresay the unparalleled roundness speaks for itself.
I enjoy nothing more than a nice, long stretch and a spot of relaxation whenever I come up here. You look like you could do with a stretch yourself.
Feeling tense, Forename? Why not stretch and relax?
Feeling tense, Forename? Why not stretch and relax?
That's the spirit! I feel more relaxed simply watching you.
A sight worth the many years spent building this place.
If it's not too much to ask... It's always been a dream of mine to take a walk through this forest with someone from Etheirys. Could we maybe...?
<gasp> You will!? Oh, be still my quivering whiskers!
Ahhh... Nothing like a relaxing stroll to forget one's worries, eh?
I understand... Being Hydaelyn's chosen and all, I'm sure you have more important things to do. If you change your mind, though, I'll be over at the fountain.
Y-You're back? You're back! I mean... Ahem. It's good to see you. Looking to take a walk through the forest, are you?
What...? N-No! I'm not sure what it is you do with crystals on Etheirys, but we don't eat them─and certainly not this one. It's possessed of all six elements─wind, lightning, fire, earth, ice, and water. We use crystals like these to maintain the moon's elemental equilibrium.
It's worth mentioning, though, that because of Hydaelyn's influence─being the embodiment of tranquility and stasis and all─manipulating the elements here is different than it might be on Etheirys.
A conjuring of fire would sooner dry your clothes than singe them, for example. Put simply, the aetheric conditions are ill-suited to growth, which is why the surface is mostly barren.
Of course, this was all necessary to keep the raging energies of Zodiark in check.
I was thinking, Forename...that I could be more helpful to you by teaching you a little about the moon and what it is we do.
When we were first created, the moon's sole purpose was to hold Zodiark, and there was absolutely nothing to be found here.
Eventually, Hydaelyn gave us our first task: furnish the moon with propulsion systems capable of facilitating travel to other stars.
It sounds impressive, and I suppose in some respects it is, but it was only possible thanks to all the knowledge Hydaelyn shared with us. We also had a lot of time to get it done. Six thousand years, give or take.
But anyway, let's keep going.
This may come as a surprise, but we didn't begin building the habitable areas until after the propulsion systems were ready.
Considering how long it took, I wish we'd started sooner. Who would've thought we'd need four thousand years to make all this?
It certainly wasn't work you dare rush, either. We had to create infrastructure and countless supporting systems, some of which wouldn't be operational until hundreds of years later.
And then there was that brief period where our productivity came to a screeching halt─when that bizarre red satellite was sent up from Etheirys. The Allagans' mischief, I think.
We thought maybe some new, nefarious actor was colluding with Zodiark. All we could do was stand by and brace ourselves for the worst.
I can't tell you how relieved we were when Hydaelyn informed us of its destruction. Oh yes, there was much joyous humming that day.
Say, do you notice anything peculiar about the treetops? I mean, apart from the fact they're massive crystals, and not trees.
I'll give you a hint: it's the golden rings emanating from the glowing spheres.
Along with the device fixed near the ceiling, they fulfill a role similar to our sun─and do so better, even.
The sun and similar celestial objects in the great expanse radiate energy that is harmful to your bodies. These rings shield you from that energy while allowing you to bathe in the perfect amount of sunlight. Or rather, a close approximation of it.
Pretty impressive, wouldn't you say? Oh, and if you look closely, you'll see different types of “trees” have ever-so-slightly different curvature! Yes indeed, this forest truly is the greatest.
There was something else I wanted to tell you about. Uh... Oh, right.
The propulsion systems and habitat facilities were completed around two thousand years ago, and with that, the most important features were fit for purpose.
Which was all well and good, except we still knew absolutely nothing about the present-day people of Etheirys.
“Why not go and visit Etheirys yourself?” you might ask. Strictly forbidden. Were our technology or knowledge of the moon's true purpose exploited for evil ends...the results could be disastrous.
Then there were a few more Rejoinings, and it became increasingly difficult to converse with Hydaelyn.
Fearful we might lose the ability to communicate with Her altogether, we beseeched Her to find people on Etheirys we could trust to help.
We were quite fortunate everything worked out as it did.
With the exception of routine inspections and maintenance, we remained asleep and waited, hopeful Hydaelyn would find someone who would help us.
Eventually She did, and though Her power was waning, we were able to speak to them directly for a short while.
We shared with them everything we could, including our knowledge of the heavens, and a means to travel here to the moon.
They certainly didn't waste any time with what we taught them. No more than a few years after that, our collaborators found a means to convey messages and supplies to us from down below.
With all the letters, books, and other resources they sent, we learned enough to start making more meaningful changes to the moon.
And now you're here, hopefully enjoying yourself as much as I am!
I knew you would like Greatest Endsvale, I knew it!
Thank you again for coming here, by the way. I know it was just a walk through the forest, but it meant a lot to me.
There you are.
I take it you've already received the grand tour? A shame we missed it.
Growingway! I've been looking all over for you!
Oh! I, uh... Is this about the teleporter to the residential area?
No, never mind that. We have more pressing matters at hand.
I will be calling an emergency meeting shortly, and your attendance is required.
Really...? I can't imagine why you'd need me there, but if you insist.
We won't be away long, so you all are more than welcome to continue looking about the burrow. Now, come along, Growingway.
Before we arrived, you seemed to be in the midst of a rousing conversation with your guide. Did you learn anything of import?
They've spent twelve thousand years preparing for this?
With the appointed hour fast approaching, I can certainly understand their restlessness. But still...
It remains to be seen if the people can be persuaded to evacuate when there are yet no signs of the Final Days.
What's more, the technology of this place defies imagination. I doubt there are many who would readily come to terms with living in such surroundings.
Whoever these collaborators are, unless they are possessed of the world's most charming personalities or a means to forcibly evacuate people, they will meet with a great deal of resistance.
Indeed. Even if faced with annihilation, the decision to forsake all one knows cannot be made lightly.
Forgive me, friends, but I must beg your leave. There is another matter which yet begs for mine attention.
Of course. We can accompany you if you like.
Nay, that will not be necessary. If you will excuse me.
Huh... What do you suppose has suddenly tickled his fancy?
'Tis clear now that difficult decisions lie ahead of us.
Preparation for the evacuation of Etheirys is indeed crucial, but I am not yet willing to forsake our world and its reflections─and I trust I am not alone in my reticence.
The Final Days will make brave fools of us all.
Did Urianger seem strange to you? More so than usual, I mean.
I know he has a penchant for keeping his own counsel, but I'd be lying if I said I wasn't worried. Would you go and see if he's all right?
Y'shtola and I will remain here and see what else we can learn about the Final Days. If you hurry, perhaps you can catch up to him.
Better for only one of us to go, in case it's a delicate matter.
Hopefully I'm overthinking things...
Urianger usually puts more effort into concealing his clandestine endeavors. Or perhaps he's simply given up on trying to hide it, knowing we'll find out eventually.
In any case, that he acts with good intentions is plain. So please, give him the benefit of the doubt.
In any case, that he acts with good intentions is plain. So please, give him the benefit of the doubt.
In any case, that he acts with good intentions is plain. So please, give him the benefit of the doubt.
Forename. Is aught the matter?
Hm...?
Who's there...?
......
Thine arrival is timely as ever.
Thou didst chance to overhear my conversation with Livingway, I presume?
'Twas not mine intent to move in shadow. Nevertheless, I have been asked to do that and more yet again...
Is it so plain that these strangers could intuit it at a glance? My capacity for silence and secrecy...and duplicity.
When G'raha Tia did contrive to deliver the First at the price of his own life, I was complicit in the scheme. A sacrifice averted, for a mercy.
Would that I could say the same for Minfilia. One life for one world. And by that bloody bargain brokered by my hand were the Scions robbed of a dear comrade, and F'lhaminn her beloved daughter.
Two souls whose selflessness was beyond measure, whose resolve was unshakable. They would not be moved even had I thought to protest.
But protest I did not. Far from it. I pushed them forward.
No effort did I make to seek out alternatives. Ones that would not demand such terrible costs.
That resignation weigheth heavy on my mind, as does the memory of another lost to mine inaction.
Dearest Moenbryda, who did face death unflinching, that we might secure a means to bring low the Ascians.
In her hour of need, I did naught. Dutiful disciple of Louisoix, ever looking to the greater good...
Had I shut mine eyes and bid her live instead, mayhap she would be with us today.
Selfish wants born of everlasting regrets. Most days I put them from my mind, but could think of naught else when asked to swallow the same bitter draught. Subterfuge and sacrifice. Mayhap the right, moral choice, but one I regard with great trepidation.
The calamity of Amaurot was a tragedy beyond reckoning. One which must never again come to pass.
Thus must we struggle. Haunted by ghosts of those we have lost. Clinging to those we pray we can yet save.
But what of those we cannot?
How do we make peace with the dreadful algebra of necessity?
I am not alone in my discomfort, then?
'Tis surprising...though perhaps not. We Scions are wont to debate strategy at length, but are resolute and unwavering in execution.
Sage counsel indeed...
I see. Wisdom as befits a great wyrm. Curious that he should think thee in need of such encouragement.
'Tis a comfort to know we are of like mind in that regard.
Strange... Scarcely can I remember when last we spoke alone, and so candidly.
I thank thee. For all my supposed skill with words, I find it difficult to express such private thoughts.
As for the Loporrits' proposition...I will take time and consider how to respond.
'Twould be to our mutual benefit if we could converse more openly with our aspiring caretakers...
...A concern I should be glad to address on the Scions' behalf.
To dispense with all pretense and bare one's heart to another is a frightening thing indeed. But we cannot move forward ere we take that bold first step. A lesson I have learned many times before...and today.
What are they saying? Curse these ears─I've heard bugger all!
No matter. We've got our plans.
In truth, my reason for traveling hither was to effect a plan of mine own. A plan which may pave a way forward for us all.
"May,“ I say, for there is no guarantee of success. 'Tis the reason I set out alone...that failure, should it come, would be mine to bear alone.
Yet thou standest before me with proffered hand and open heart...
'Twould be remiss of me to refuse thy amity, and so I ask─wouldst thou join in mine endeavor?
I thank thee for accompanying me.
'Tis a simple plan, in truth. We shall not be long away from Bestways Burrow.
Difficult decisions must needs be made in the coming days, but I nevertheless believe we are all of one mind in our desire to save the people of Etheirys.
To make clear our resolve to the Loporrits, I would offer them a gift. But its making doth require a most singular ingredient.
Ah, an abundance of spongoi. Excellent.
I chanced to spy this aggregation when crossing Zodiark's erstwhile prison.
Using a spell taught to me by the Nu Mou, I believe these shall suffice for the gift I would fashion.
The magick requireth considerable concentration, however. Might I prevail upon thee to stand watch whilst I perform the incantation?
...
...
...
...
...
There... 'Tis done.
A magicked ink, every onze as efficacious as that crafted by the Nu Mou.
Rare is the occasion I would conjure mine own, but is nevertheless a most useful skill.
The resulting product is, admittedly, possessed of no preternatural properties, but its hue is one of mine own choosing, which I pray the Loporrits will appreciate.
Forename! Urianger! Oh, thank goodness. I thought you had been eaten, or had perhaps fallen into a crater.
Y'shtola has been looking all over for you, Forename. She says she needs to speak with you about something most urgent. Dire, even.
She was also quite clear that she wishes to speak with Forename alone. Which means, I'm afraid, you must stay behind, Urianger.
But worry not! It just so happens we need your help with an errand─delivering a package from the Watcher's Palace to Bestways Burrow. It's quite large and heavy─perhaps even too heavy, for we poor Loporrits─and we would be ever so grateful if you could lend us a hand.
Phew, good...
I-I mean, yes, very good. Let us not keep you, then. She said she would be waiting for you in Greatest Endsvale...or somewhere thereabouts. I'm sure you'll find her soon enough.
No, no, that won't be necessary. Urianger's help should more than suffice.
And I'm sure you don't want to risk getting on Y'shtola's bad side by keeping her waiting. She seems...prickly. Now, off with you.
Are you insinuating I would betray the trust of Hydaelyn's chosen? Or worse—do anything to risk getting on Y'shtola's bad side!?
She's clearly not one to be crossed, nor made to wait. Now, off with you!
Worry not, Forename. I shan't be long.
Oh! B-Back so soon?
Everything is all right with Urianger, then? That's a relief.
Oh, Forename. We thought you would be away for far longer.
A dire emergency? I said no such thing.
But as you are here, I could use your assistance with one small matter.
Runningway, a companion of Growingway's, apparently has much to tell us of the Final Days.
The problem, however, is that he is determined to live up to his name, refusing to stay still long enough for us to hold a conversation.
Is there anywhere he's likely to stop and rest? Or perhaps there's a way to slow him down?
Wh-What's the rush? I was thinking we should wait here, maybe enjoy a cold mug of carrot juice, and...no? <sigh> Well, if it's really that important...
You can try using these...balls. Of mousse flesh. Not to be confused with...the other thing.
Ahem. Runningway's other notable feature is his incessant chatter, so you'll have no trouble finding him in a crowd. And when you do, try lobbing your balls at him.
Crude, but if it proves effective... He was here in Greatest Endsvale when last I saw him. Let us split up and find him.
