The others aren't much better. The Elezen gets on my nerves most of all. Every time he opens his mouth, it's only to spout gibberish.
I do wonder, why is the tribunus so obsessed with this Minfilia woman?
They say she possesses some mystical power. Something we Garleans don't have.
Mystical power? Like the kind the beastmen use?
How am I supposed to bloody know? If you're so curious, why don't you ask the tribunus yourself?
As well try to tumble her! I like my head where it is, thank you very much!
Our break is over. Best we get back to our stations.
Our break is over. Best we get back to our stations.
'Tis good to see you again, Forename. I'm given to understand you have conducted some reconnaissance. Tell me, what were you able to learn?
...So Minfilia and the others are indeed at Castrum Centri! Their presence thus confirmed, we may proceed with the mission. While you were afield, Cid took the liberty of devising a plan of action. Pray have the details from him.
Good work, Forename. As Alphinaud has already told you, we've plotted out a course for the rescue.
The gist of it is unchanged: we disguise ourselves as imperial soldiers and infiltrate the stronghold.
Glaumunt is looking into ways to procure a suit of magitek armor. In the meantime, I need your assistance for some preparation of my own.
Minfilia and the others are counting on us, Forename. Let's not keep them waiting any longer than necessary!
While Glaumunt goes about devising his plan, we need to see to some preparation of our own.
It wouldn't do if the imperials were to discover that they're short an armor.
To prevent this from happening, I'm going to put together a makeshift communications-jamming device. The explanation is like to get a bit technical, so bear with me.
Imperial forces communicate at a distance via electromagnetic waves. Simply put, voices are borne upon aetheric lightning energy that permeates the air.
Now, the hill-sized cluster of corrupted crystals to the west has been observed to amplify the selfsame energy. By making use of this property, we should be able to drown out imperial voices.
To ensure that we have enough amplification, we must identify the most potent crystals among the cluster. For this, I need you to go there and use this device to take readings. I'll mark the likely places on your map.
Oh, and just so you know, plasmoids are drawn to lightning energy. Don't be surprised if you run into a few.
You have the readings? Excellent. Here, let me see the numbers.
...Yes, four of these crystals should suit our purpose, though I pray that we won't have need of their power. My thanks, Forename.
Clean the wax out o' your ears now, 'cause there's somethin' I want you to do by way o' preparation.
The plan's to have you enter Castrum Centri all decked out in imperial duds, but a disguise is more'n just the clothes you're wearin'. You also gotta act the part.
At the very least, you need to know how to perform a convincin' imperial salute. First impressions're everythin', as they say.
I could teach you the salute myself, o' course, but it's best you learned it from the experts. So get yourself near as you dare to Castrum Centri, an' watch the imperials doin' what they do.
