I am Gurfurlur, elector of the Dawnservant! Prepare to be tested!
So that's the High Luminary...He... He's huge!
If it's a fight he wants, then let's give it to him!
Prove you are worthy to rule!
Feel the weight of history carved in stone!
Some kind of arcane tablet?
Careful! This is powerful magic...
Chronicles of eld... Recount the fury of erupting peaks!
We'll face whatever he throws at us!
Chronicles of eld... Retell the hunger of roiling waters!
I will take the measure of your resolve!
Implacable strength of the mountain be mine...
Spirit of my brethren, your thunder roars!
His strength is formidable...But so is ours!
Stand fast!
That you should endure my fury...
Everyone all right!?
Well enough...Let's get back to it!
Time to go on the offensive!
Chronicles of eld... Recall the cruelty of merciless storms!
Well fought...
Carved histories recreated through magic...It's an interesting fighting style.
That was some fight!Papa knows how to pick his electors.
I think I did well considering our opponent!
Very good, claimant. Once more, I name myself Gurfurlur. High Luminary to my people and chosen elector of the Dawnservant.
You're much bigger than the others in the village!
All Yok Huy were once my equal in size. But ever since we were decimated by disease, it is rare to see a child reach our former stature.
You speak of the contagion which afflicted the Xak Tural expedition. The one recorded in your murals...
It is a chapter of our history that is entangled with the legend of the golden city.
I've heard that legend originated with the Yok Huy. Is this true...?
With the visions our ancestors had, to be precise.
Preceding the campaign into Xak Tural, many were visited by dreams of glittering splendor.
They described a paradise that knew neither war nor famine. Where people lived lives of eternal happiness...
A single dreamer might have been dismissed. But when dozens, if not hundreds, spoke the same, the luminaries became convinced it was divine revelation.
Then the expedition...
Its purpose was to find the city of gold, yes. Help was marshaled from all the territories under our control. Lands were scoured on a massive scale.
Ah...little wonder the legend is so similar across Tural. Those involved with the search would've passed the stories down to their children.
Another claimant, I see. I will test your worth, as I have tested those who came before you.
“Here and now,” I think he means.
Well fought, Second Promise. For you and your sister's success in performing the Feat of Proof, you both shall be rewarded.
Three to go!
How glorious it would have been to race thee and thine to the summit...though mayhap not whilst being hounded by Bakool Ja Ja and his minions.
Again that swine shows his disdain for the rite!
Strangely, despite his eagerness to antagonize us, he withdrew as soon as we fought back in earnest. I cannot fathom what he was trying to achieve...
On a similar note, I'm also curious as to why you chose the peak of Worqor Zormor for the conclusion of this feat.
The earlier stages saw us learn the history of the Yok Huy. Does this location also hold some special meaning for your people?
Yes. It is a place of great significance.
All these monuments... Is this a burial ground?
Every High Luminary before me is enshrined in this earth. Alongside them are the heroes who bravely stood their ground when Valigarmanda brought ruin to Urqopacha eight decades past.
Hmm... That explains why there are so many.
Zoraal Ja. I should've known you'd arrive here first...
Ah, Third Promise. How relieved I am to find you in good health.
Sareel Ja, you bastard! I should end you here and now!
Remember where you are. You will mind your conduct, or you will leave.
Right, uh...sorry.
I see no reason to delay further. Show me my father's sepulchre.
Papa has a grave...?
Upon this monument are inscribed the names of those who sealed away the monstrous Valigarmanda. Your father's included.
“Gulool Ja Ja - Master of Resolve and Reason. Champion of Peace.”
Look at this one. “Ketenramm - Navigator of Uncharted Oceans.”
Ketenramm? The Lominsan explorer? Does this mean he joined Gulool Ja Ja on his travels!?
“Cahciua - Seeker of the Unknown.” How strange to see your name here...
It was unheard of to build living sepulchres for those who were not Yok Huy...but their great deed demanded recognition.
Master of Resolve and Reason. Champion of Peace... Papa really did some amazing things.
He carved his path with martial skill.
Yet it was clever thinking which allowed him to trap Valigarmanda within its own ice magicks.
Martial skill and clever thinking... Hmm.
I can't compete with Zoraal Ja's mastery of the Head of Resolve's techniques.
And when it comes to knowledge, Koana's the one who most takes after the Head of Reason.
Is there anything that I've gotten from Papa? Something I do better than the others...
...Of course!
What else defines him...?
Oh, of course!
Papa's love for peace─for his people! That is what he's given me.
And I'm fighting to preserve the peaceful Tural he built!
What in the hells was that!?
You must return to Worlar's Echo immediately!
Valigarmanda has broken free!
I presume that was about the unholy sound?
Valigarmanda is free!?
We need to get back there. Now!
How fortuitous. We have been gifted an opportunity to outpace our rivals.
Urianger says fire aether pervades the entire village. What happened here...?
Many of the villagers sustained burns, but the fire found no purchase in these stone buildings. A small mercy.
Though Valigarmanda's escape is of dire concern, we must needs tend to those caught in the conflagration.
This is a Sharlayan restorative potion. Drink it slowly.
You'll be fine. Just try to avoid sudden movements so you don't reopen your wounds.
Stay with me! We'll have a healer see to you soon!
There, that should help. Rest awhile, and you'll be back on your feet in no time.
Good, you're back.
There is much I would explain, but by the time I arrived to investigate a sudden surge in aether, there were already fallen giants everywhere.
Right now, everyone is preoccupied with treating the wounded. Pray catch your breath, and then lend a hand where you can.
If you are ready, there are many injured here who need aid. Should you find anyone passed out from their wounds, I ask that you alert me to them.
Otherwise, I shall be tending to whomever requires the most urgent healing. We can gather here once we've seen to these people's hurts.
Once we've treated the wounded, I'll have everyone meet at the spot where we were talking earlier.
You... The Third Promise's protector...
Everything was bathed in bright red. A searing heat enveloped my entire body. I couldn't move...
What happened to us...?
Ah...
My wounds are nothing serious, but this dryness in my throat... It's as if all the moisture has left my body.
That strangers from across the salt should be the ones to aid us...
<groan>
Everything burns... The touch of cloth is agony. Yet I will live. Leave me─there are others in more dire need of help.
We are fortunate indeed that you and your companions have come.
I've done all I can for now. The injured you found were awake and alert, then?
That is well.
We've left the injured as comfortable as we could.
Many were suffering from burns to a greater or lesser degree. Did a fire sweep through the village?
The details are unclear...
Once I'd healed the giant attacked by that mountain bird, the group's leader─Vorporlor, I believe they called him─bade me depart. It was then that I felt an intense wave of aether, and returned to find Worlar's Echo in this state.
I rushed over to the first giant I saw. Though delirious with pain, he repeated the same warning: Valigarmanda had broken free. Thus did I contact you with all haste.
Well, we're going to need more information than that before we can deal with the situation.
Yes, we should speak with the temple guard, and see what's become of the Skyruin's prison!
I would be glad to learn that this was all some misunderstanding... A futile hope, by the looks of things.
They did say the prison was beginning to fail, but I felt certain it would hold for another few years, at least. Was I mistaken?
We need to find out exactly what's going on!
Whatever answers exist await us inside the temple.
The High Luminary will have returned by now. Hopefully he's found out more than we have...
The High Luminary grants you entry, and awaits you within.
What happened!?
So it's true─the ice has failed...
Zurmurwur. Tell them what you told me.
A short while ago, a claimant paid us a visit...
Who enters this hallowed hall?
Ah, a claimant.
Oooh. And here we have the mighty Valigarmanda.
A terrifying vidraal. With every awakening, it has seared its ruinous name into the memories of a new generation...
What a good little terror.
You've stayed napping right up until the day I needed you!
Explain yourself.
It is as they say... Gulool Ja Ja caused its magic to run rampant, trapping it in a frozen prison of its own creation. Clever, clever!
To unmake it, it would be quite tricky.
Two spells must be cast at the exact same moment: a conflagration intense enough to melt the ice, and a wakening flame to rekindle the slumbering vidraal's soul.
The only ones capable of such harmonious execution would be the Heads of Reason and Resolve...
...and the blessed siblings─Bakool Ja Ja!
You mustn't!
But I already have...
Rise and rage, little terror.
I might've overdone the fire a bit.
Utter madness... Why have you done this?
For the throne, of course!
You unleash calamity for your own gain? Have you any idea how many may die!?
Wreak havoc, Valigarmanda. Live up to your legend.
A messenger to Tuliyollal has been dispatched. The Landsguard will send a contingent, I am sure, but there is no telling when they will arrive...
That idiot... This monstrous act is a step too far, even for him!
So...what's the plan?
If we leave the vidraal to others, it will be a massacre.
Some might call it the wiser choice if I don't want to fall behind the competition, but I could never live with myself─and my supporters deserve a better ruler!
So that's that. I will stay and fight Valigarmanda!
This is an enemy so powerful that even my father failed to slay it. Alone, I don't stand a chance.
I understand you've no obligation to aid me outside the rite of succession...
But for the sake of Urqopacha and its people, I beg you join me in this battle!
Hah! Drawn to the chaos—you're as bad as Papa. Don't worry: the Skyruin should prove a big enough challenge for all of us.
You mean you'll help!? Thank you─I won't forget this!
Far be it from us to abandon a dear comrade in her time of need.
Dear comrades now, eh...
Heh, I have to say, it does have a comforting ring to it.
Knowing someone has your back makes it easier to do what you have to do.
And what will we do?
One committed to winning the contest above all else would race on ahead...
If you're resolved to slay Valigarmanda, we'll need to find out where the beast went.
That's what we have you for, old friend!
Inform the Pelupelu of the danger. They may need to flee to lower ground.
When I said I would take on the duties of a guide, that did not include the tracking of ancient and terrible tural vidraal. Still, we can't leave Valigarmanda free to ravage the land.
Two casters releasing spells of fire at the exact same moment... A feat impossible for any but a two-headed Mamool Ja.
That fiend Bakool Ja Ja─he's rotten through and through! There's nothing “blessed” about him!
Should a claimant reckless enough to free the Skyruin become Dawnservant, what would become of Tuliyollal?
