Hm? Who are you, and what are you doing in here?
Well, you should have listened to Thaffe. You're wasting your time.
But this site is not as developed as the others, is it not? Surely there must be something left.
I should explain. The stone you're looking for is leonine. All the Talos in the Hills of Amber are powered using them.
Or were, at least. Anyway, whatever's left─if anything─is too far below to be safely excavated.
In the deepest reaches of the mine, we used Talos to keep the pathways from collapsing. They're still there, but they could give out at any time, which is why much of the mine is closed off.
Then our only option is to search the higher levels for any fragments of leonine that may have been overlooked.
Hmm... I suppose there may be one other way.
Well? Don't leave us in suspense.
What you're asking for is a trade secret. I'll need to be duly compensated in exchange.
<sigh> Fine. What do you want?
The other day I found a Voeburt gold piece down in the mines. A bloody Voeburt gold piece! And wouldn't you know it, I dropped the damned thing somewhere while I was working.
Find it, and I'll tell you what you want to know.
You drive a hard bargain, sir, but we'll take it.
It seems we have our work cut out for us, Forename. Thankfully, I have an idea for how we might hurry things along.
As I'm sure you've noticed, despite their best efforts to illuminate the corridors, it's rather dark in here. Meaning it will be that much harder to find a single coin hiding in the shadows.
That's why I propose we use these─sundrops. They help the eye take in more light.
Why don't you start your search further in, and I handle this area here? I'll retrace your steps after in case you happen to miss it.
If you feel the drops' effects wearing off, I can give you more, so don't worry.
If you feel the drops' effects wearing off, I can give you more, so don't worry.
If you feel the drops' effects wearing off, I can give you more, so don't worry.
I was hoping he dropped the gold piece somewhere closer to the entrance. More fool me for thinking Lady Luck was on our side...
...Or maybe she is. Yours at least. In the end, my contribution was little more than poor company.
So you say, but you have a proven knack for success regardless of circumstances. I doubt very much I could've discovered it unassisted.
No more than usual, I assure you.
I only managed to survive the Coerthan wilderness and the imperial capital by virtue of extensive preparation─a habit of mine since childhood, and one of my few positive traits which endeared me to Louisoix, I imagine.
It hasn't been easy finding ways to compensate for my...condition. Every tool and trinket has proven vital to my continued success─such as it is.
Had I chosen to pursue the arcane arts rather than espionage, well... I'd rather not think on it.
So long as I have the means to protect those dear to me, and to see my duties through, that's all that matters.
Now let's hurry and see that returned to Guthjon. The sooner we get back to Urianger and Minfilia, the better.
You're back. Wait, does that mean...?
I'll be damned. You actually found it!
Well, a deal's a deal. But don't think this means you'll find what you're after.
To be honest, I wasn't sure you could pull it off.
But you did, and I'm a man of my word. Come with me.
Every time I step out of those mines the sky seems to get brighter. I'd never leave them if the air weren't so stale...
But you're not come to hear my grievances. You're after leonine.
First, I have to ask─you ever heard of rockworms?
Rockworms? I know them by another name, though I'm fairly certain the locals call them knockers.
Aye, that they do. Whatever you want to call them, those little bastards may be the answer to your troubles.
They can fit through cracks and crevices down where we could never hope to reach.
And, on occasion, they come back with something valuable.
They dig up leonine in the mines?
It's a rare occurrence, but yes. That said, it usually amounts to no more than a few flakes.
Well our only other option sounds tantamount to suicide. So how can we draw out these rockworms?
Over by that shack you'll find a bag full of smoke bombs. Set off a few in the mines and you'll flush them out in no time.
Once they're out in the open, knock 'em senseless and check their backs.
I should warn you this method of mining, if you can even call it that, is used as a last resort on account of what little they're like to bring back. You'll want to cover as much ground as you can if you hope to find anything of value.
Assuming you do find something, bring it here and I'll have a look.
We should split up if we're to cover more ground as he suggests. If you can cover these three areas on your map, I'll see to the parts between them.
We should split up if we're to cover more ground as he suggests. If you can cover these three areas on your map, I'll see to the parts between them.
There you are. Find anything promising?
Between the two of you I'd say you've got quite the haul.
Best get comfortable, friends. It's going to take time for me to sift through all this.
You may not remember this about our Minfilia...
But prior to founding the Path of the Twelve, long before the Scions, she was something of a miner.
After her father died, F'lhaminn took her in and taught her the trade.
I think they were both seeking to fill the void left by a loved one. Maybe that's why she took to it so readily.
Back in those days, I spent most of my time in the Quicksand or some other tavern, loosening tongues and gathering secrets. Occasionally, I'd catch a glimpse of her in the street, on her way home after another hard day's work.
I always felt a wave of relief when I saw she'd come back safe...along with a pang of guilt at the fact I wasn't there to support her as I should've been.
Simply speaking with her more than once in a blue moon would've been a good start, but I could never bring myself to do it. Instead, I threw myself into my “work” and became every drunkard's best friend.
Not too highly, no. She once called me a "wine-sodden wharf rat"─which wouldn't have been half as galling had it not been so accurate.
Far from it─and F'lhaminn has never let me live it down.
But that was a lifetime ago. Here and now I have another chance to do things right, and I will not squander it again.
Hey! Come and see what I've found! You're not going to believe this!
Tell me it's leonine.
It is, at that! You lot were born lucky.
It's mostly broken pieces─but look at this!
This is a rather fine specimen.
It's been decades since we've found anything approaching this big! But that's not all─there's an engraving on it.
Ah, these scratches here? They're a little hard to make out.
"To my beloved Magnus and Skuli.“
Yes! Do you see!? It was a gift to Magnus from his wife!
She found it. She really found it.
She must've spent her final hours carving this message into the stone, in the hope that he might see it one day.
Those rock-backed bastards must've made off with it before we could clear a path to her.
It's fate that brought you here to find this stone. No other explanation. Makes me wonder what else might still be buried in these parts.
I wouldn't believe it had I not seen it for myself.
Before you set it in the Talos, would you take it to Magnus?
For three long years he's believed she died for nothing. He must know the truth─that her sacrifice was not in vain.
We'll take it straight to him. You have my word. Thank you, Guthjon, for all your help.
Right, then. Let's not keep everyone waiting.
...What? Oh, it's you.
If you've come to complain about the trolley, you'll find no sympathy from me. I told you before it won't run, and you wouldn't listen.
Oh, but it will. Now that we have this.
Your name is engraved on it, along with your son's. It was a gift from your wife, Magnus. From Agna.
No... No, she couldn't have...
Agna...
Take it. Do with it what you will.
Are you certain? It would delay our plans, but─
I said take it. It was you who found it, you who needs it.
Looking at that stone, all I can see is...is...
Please, just leave me be.
I hope you'll be there when the Talos stirs to life.
I'm sure she'd want you to see it.
Would you do the honors of delivering this to Urianger?
Thou art returned, and with leonine it would seem.
As promised, the Talos hath been made ready to receive its heart, thanks in no small part to Jeryk, Thaffe, and Minfilia.
At last we shall return time to the timeless, this sentinel of stone, that we may press on towards Nabaath Areng.
Very good. Now, let us begin.
Preparations for the enchantment are complete. When the heart hath been suffused with a sufficient quantity of aether, the golem should be restored to life.
All right then. Whenever you're ready.
It's working! It's working!
M...Magnus.
You left me for this...this wretched heap of stone and rubble...
This worthless pile of earth. And yet...I can't... I can't...
What troubleth thee, child?
I shouldn't be here. I don't deserve to be. I don't deserve any of the things you've done for me!
I'm just a burden, helpless and hopeless. If tomorrow came and I was gone, it would be better for everyone!
Thancred most of all. He'll never admit it, but I can see it in his eyes...
I wish he'd just say it─just say that he hates me! That he wishes I was dead so that she could return...
None of this is thy doing, child.
'Twas I who set the Oracle on her path unto the First. I who condemned you all to suffer these torments. 'Tis my sin alone, and one that will haunt me unto my dying day.
Yet I dare not dwell overlong on my many regrets, for the world is a tapestry of fates, interwoven and inseparable, and we who strive to better it cannot choose but make difficult decisions. For naught of worth was ever achieved without sacrifice.
And thus must man ever struggle to weigh life against loss.
The one for whom thou mournest beareth no grudge.
Were she here, she would not suffer thee to languish in sorrow. She would tell thee to seek thine own path, thine own purpose.
It is a truth which I myself was slow to learn. Yet a truth it remaineth.
Thou needst but have faith. Have faith and all will be well.
Not today.
Not today.
To what do I owe the pleasure that is your extended stay?
Oh, to the tediousness of our heroes' present endeavors.
That, and the insufferable abundance of Light in Amh Araeng. I should be glad to keep my distance.
I'm rather fond of sleep, you know. Wonderful way to pass the time.
Not that my compeers would agree, mind you. Always on the move, the lot of them. Like Lahabrea, constantly jumping from vessel to vessel.
Such fire, such determination! So much passion, fleeting and forgotten...
Come to think of it, Exarch, I don't believe I've ever seen you retire to your chambers for so much as forty winks. However do you keep your eyes from closing?
The cold shoulder. You wound me, sir.
Always so guarded in our every interaction─interactions you curiously refrain from sharing with the Scions and their champion...
And risk souring your budding relationship? I think not. Much as I dislike you, there are more useful targets for her energies. And I am not in the habit of pointing her at my enemies like a weapon.
Is that right? Fond of her, are you?
You continue to fascinate me, Exarch.
But tell me: who are you?
The once-great nation whose ingenuity gave birth to this tower was shaped by my hand. As such, I know full well the wonders it can facilitate...and those it cannot.
There is nothing in these walls which could have aided you in summoning our dear friend across time and space.
Much less in possession of her mortal flesh! Not even I could have performed such a feat.
I see... You had a hand in Allag as well.
You would know what I am?
I am the adjudicator of the sacred history with which you dared trifle.
I am keeper of this tower's boundless wisdom. The wisdom of ages without age. Of everywhere and nowhere. The great work of those who tamed the wings of time, and grasped the nature of the rift.
'Tis a boon born of sacrifices yet unmade... The parting gift of brave heroes who will one day give their lives for a brighter future.
I will not see their hopes and dreams squandered. The history which led us here will be unwritten. I promise you that.
Well, it seems we are both eager to fulfill our duties, then.
On that much we are in agreement.
Mine apologies for the delay. Minfilia and I had a private matter to discuss.
Which bringeth me to the question─how didst thou find Thancred during your search?
He spoke of Minfilia? Of his own accord? I see...
'Tis well that he did, and with such candor.
I attempted to broach the subject before. Mine intention was to ensure no words remained unspoken between them, lest tragedy intercede. A regret I myself know all too well. Alas, in the end he refused to heed my counsel.
A time will come when they must face the reality of their circumstances. But I have faith that all will be well in time...
Now, let us not tarry any longer. The Talos and Nabaath Areng await.
It's been years since I've seen a Talos in such fine shape. Would that Agna was here to see it. Or our son...
I was ready to let her dreams die down there in the mines. Even after you'd found the leonine, I refused to believe it could work. Gods, what a fool I was.
But I tell you now─I'm going to take good care of this Talos. For both their sakes.On behalf of my family, and all the miners of Twine, thank you.
Well, enough chitter-chatter. Let's get you lot to Nabaath Areng, eh?
Everything seems to be in order. I take it the Talos's presence resolves the issue of the gate?
Hm? Oh, that. Yes.
It's designed to open at the Talos's approach.
Then we can finally go to Nabaath Areng.
You certainly can. All that remains is a final check of the control box over at the mines.
You hear that, boys? Get that Talos over to the mines, and keep a close eye on it around the curves. Understood?
Yes sir!
Let us repair to the mines, then.
Before we go...
While you were away with Forename, I prepared an extra set of cartridges for you.
And this one. It's the practice cartridge you gave me.
I know I should've thrown it away ages ago, but I've been adding a little extra to it every day. After so many charges, I'm honestly not sure what it will do. But I wanted you to have it. For luck.
Minfilia, I─ Uh...
We should hurry. Magnus and the others are probably wondering where we are.
So this is it. We're finally going to Nabaath Areng.
I've thought long and hard about what to say to her. To the real Minfilia.
I hoped when the time came I would know, but with every step we take I feel more uncertain.
That's no reason to give up, though. Not when so much is at stake.
Thank you, all of you, for helping me to get here. Now, let's not keep Magnus waiting.
There you are. So, what do you think?
A little primitive-looking, I'll admit, but Daedalus Stoneworks has always favored a simple, intuitive design, and that philosophy has served us well enough.
Much of the trolley network uses single tracks, making it easy for the Talos to navigate them as needed.
And plotting a route is so simple, even we can do it, which makes for fewer accidents in transit.
Speaking of which, are you ready to board?
All right, then. Watch your step.
Urianger?
Thou must needs carry on without me.
The path to Nabaath Areng lieth open. Whilst thou travelest thither to the south, I would apprise Mistress Alisaie and the others of our progress.
As circumstances permit, I will thereafter rejoin the hunt for the remaining Lightwardens.
Magnus. Will the gate close immediately after the trolley passes through?
No, it will stay open until someone closes it manually. Built that way to prevent any untimely accidents.
Then you and the others can meet us in Nabaath Areng after giving the Eulmorans the slip.
Ah, Urianger...
Thank you. For everything.
Remember: thou needst but have faith.
If you've finished with your good-byes, I suggest you grab hold of something. Be a shame if you took a tumble.
The tracks beyond the gate aren't in the best of shape, so the trolley can only go as far as Amh Malik.
Godsspeed!
Ah, that must be the gate.
Well, so far so good...
Wait...is that─ Ran'jit!
You're a stubborn old swine, aren't you...
One who has mastered Gukumatz fears not the blackest pit or the fieriest hell.
Your deeds in the east did not go unnoticed. Long have I lain in wait, and sure enough, you did not disappoint.
Had you only sworn fealty to Lord Vauthry, you would have no cause to skulk about like frightened animals.
You will remain as you are, while I dispatch these villains.
No! I won't...! I won't let you!
You forget to whom you speak! Who armed you? Trained you? Fought and killed a thousand sin eaters with you!?
And when you were inevitably cut down and lay lifeless in my arms─who sought out your successor to carry on the futile struggle again and again!?
We seek to bring peace to what is left of this shattered land, while these mad fools would only bring further chaos down upon us!
Do not be deceived, child! Only by Lord Vauthry's hand will this dying world know a sliver of salvation!
I don't know about the world...but I never asked to be saved.
However much it hurts, and however hard it gets, it's my life, and I want to live it on my own terms!
And those “mad fools” you want me to abandon? The ones I've traveled with, fought with, and may one day die with─they feel the same.
So no, I will not be deceived! No matter what you say, I refuse to believe it's all for nothing!
They're everything to me. All I have and all I need. And I would gladly do anything for them.
Let us pass, or kill me. I'm not leaving here without them.
How dare you! Very well─if you would cast your lot with villains, then you shall share their fate!
I heard what you said. And I'm sorry for all the things I've left unspoken.
You have to go. Now!
Thancred, no─
Go! Do what you came here to do.
I'll not have you waste that newfound resolve on me.
I leave her in your hands. Hurry!
Not another step! Your fight is with me.
You think yourself her protector!? Hah! As if a whelp like you could be a better father to her than me!
Whatever it takes, I swear I will end you.
Hmph. You lie to yourself as you lied to her.
Aye, I lied. Kept secrets. But no more. She deserves better.
A life of pain? Of ceaseless conflict and despair?
