I can't lie to you, Forename. I wasn't entirely for this whole thing when Sanson spoke to me, but...if it means being your brother-in-arms, then who am I to pettifog?
I shouldn't be so hard on him, I suppose. This bard unit is quite impressive, really. Yes, one must give credit where credit is due. Rather uncouth for one to do otherwise, after all!
I am glad to see you well, Forename. Grandmother was worried for you.
The night I agreed to come hither and join the contingent, the gods sent her a strange dream.
Two suns─one burning red, the other frozen black. Closer they circled, closer and closer, and as they danced the world fell to ruin. In blinding chaos she spied blackened silhouettes, and knew at once that one was yours.
Yet we knew not how to interpret this dream, save as a sign that great danger awaits. But whatever lies ahead, I will walk with you, traveler.
I care not for the ironmen or their troubles. It is the destiny of the weak to die in ignominy.
Even so, I will do as I have agreed. I volunteered to join this band at Cirina's request, and if she thinks it a worthy cause, that is reason enough.
Though we hail from different tribes, our bond has grown strong of late. She is much better company on a hunt than any of the Steppe's oafish men could dream to be.
With the Mol─champions of the Naadam─and the Dotharl having sent so many here, I had thought to defend the Steppe in their absence.
And I would have done so were it not for my Steppe brothers. They urged me to grant our allies the Sun's might, that his radiance may deliver them unto victory.
Though I must tolerate the presence of this feral Dotharli dog, as first among my brothers, I could do no less than accept this challenge. My deeds will become the stuff of legends.
So, Lucia's in command... Regardless of her background, she's a Temple Knight through and through. I daresay her Garlean roots are all the more reason for her to lead this mission.
This is extraordinary...
To be in such company, the finest our allies have to offer. With comrades such as these, we are bound to succeed. I'm certain of it!
We've been part of joint military operations like this before, and with far greater numbers. But for some reason, this feels very different to our previous experiences.
Despite having shared little more than introductions, there is already a palpable sense of camaraderie.
I was half-expecting to find the man who taught me red magic amongst our number, but he's nowhere to be seen.
I suppose he's had his share of unpleasant experiences with the Empire, but so have we all. Perhaps there's some other reason...
Well, in any case, I've a feeling I'll see him again once this is all over. I'm sure he'll be pleasantly surprised by how much my swordplay's improved since we last met!
Blessed are we to have made countless steadfast allies o'er our journey's course. Indeed, we are joined today by many new acquaintances, who in time, shall we come to call our comrades...and mayhap friends.
I've close ties with the scouts of the Eastern alliance and the various resistance groups, and they're an absolute joy to work with.
Besides the delegates assembled here, the Amalj'aa and several other tribes offered to send troops of their own.
Unfortunately, due to their physiology, many would struggle simply to survive in the harsh climate of Ilsabard. They would also likely prove tempting targets for abduction by the Telophoroi...
All things considered, they can better aid the cause by bolstering our defenses in Eorzea─though their eagerness to do more has been noted.
We few shall have to suffice. Ere we embark, we must distribute the warding scales to our comrades. Care to do the honors?
I suspect a few of our comrades will be rather pleased to speak with you again, which is why I thought you'd be the ideal candidate.
In the meantime, I have a bone to pick with Thancred and Urianger regarding their wagging tongues...
Yes?
So these are the famed warding scales? Enough for me and my men, I see.
Under normal circumstances, I would not be allowed to travel outside of the Twelveswood. The Elder Seedseer, however, has granted me special permission.
She has bid me lend my magicks to the people of Garlemald while learning all I can of their ways. In so doing, I will come closer to understanding myself and my place in the world...or so she says.
I say it is past time our allies benefited from the power at a Seedseer's disposal. Some bemoan that we hide our light under a bushel, and I intend to address that criticism.
I hear you've got somethin' for us.
Ahh, them scales everyone's been talkin' about. Pretty little things, ain't they? Reckon they'll be worth a gil or two when this is all over, but we'll hold on to 'em for now.
And one more thing─ I know what you're all thinkin'. “Why didn't they send Eynzahr instead?”
Buggered if I know. All the Admiral and Captain Hyllfyr told me was they needed someone to help “safeguard the future.” And here I am. Can't say they haven't got a sense of humor.
'Course, some of you might be wonderin' what good a pirate is on dry land, in the middle of the soddin' snow of all places. Well, me and my crew'll do whatever needs doin', so let's set sail─or however the sayin' goes on airships.
That a set of warding scales I spy? Not that I would know what they'd look like...
Wow, look at these! Even a layman like me can tell they're bursting with aether. All the better to fend off the...tempering waves? Is that the right term?
Anyway, these'll give us one less thing to worry about. Which just leaves the other mountain of whatever else is waiting for us in Garlemald.
Only one way to find out, eh? And nervous or not, I'd march through all seven hells if it gave me a chance to put Zenos back in the grave where he belongs.
Warding scales for the Ishgardian delegation, I take it?
Many thanks. These talismans may prove to be the deciding factor in the battles to come.
I find myself...conflicted by this foray into Garlemald. Sent by the Empire to infiltrate Ishgard, only to throw in my lot with those whose secrets I was supposed to be stealing...
And now I lead a mission to save the countrymen I betrayed.
But that is doubtless why I was chosen by Lord Aymeric. He would have me put my extensive knowledge and former ties to good use. I will not disappoint him.
For the future of Ishgard, Garlemald, and the world at large, I will lead us to victory.
We heard it would be cold in Garlemald, so we came prepared...
Oh, the talismans! We are to keep these close at all times, yes? I will see that no one misplaces theirs.
Ah, and before I forget, I have a message from Hien.
“In distant lands, in times of strife,Together, stand; together, fight,In darkness shines the light of life.”
...I hope I have done his words justice. Doma, like much of Othard, has been plagued by the towers. Yet while he could not be here, he wished to express his shared conviction.
Hien and Yugiri labor without rest to unite the people, and with their aid will we keep the enemy at bay.
And we of the Steppe and the Eastern alliance will repay their efforts by ending this war!
Do you have a warding scale for me, too?
Thank you for this─and for going to such incredible lengths for the sake of my people.
Though I have little to offer in return, I would impart some advice, if I may. You have been told by many to ware the cold of Ilsabard, and I cannot stress enough that this is no token warning.
I will be distributing specially made warming tinctures─courtesy of the Alchemists' Guild─but understand that they are no substitute for proper protection.
I leave the provisioning of said protection to your discretion. Now, let us proceed to the Ala Mhigan Quarter.
While you make your final preparations, I will have the pilots ready the airships.
It's something of a constant refrain that we require warmer clothing. My present garb may be lacking, fur collar notwithstanding...
Concoctions to fortify the flesh against wind and cold are commonly sold in the Ul'dahn markets─though they are of dubious provenance and efficacy.
'Tis said, however, that in recent days the Alchemists' Guild hath produced a tincture capable of such a feat. Mayhap the achievements of their Thavnairian counterparts did spur them to action, that they not be put to shame.
This coat is quite warm, but I have something rather thicker for occasions like these. There's no telling how long we'll be out in the open, and we can't go starting fires willy-nilly if we want to avoid detection.
Since my “revival,” I've been lax in expanding my limited wardrobe. Think we have time for a quick trip back to Old Sharlayan? I recall a rather fetching coat...
Preparations? I've got my armor and my lance. What more could I need?
If you've anything you still need to take care of, you'd better see to it now!
This is our last chance to make ready before we set forth.
You needn't worry about Urianger and I. We still have what we wore in Garlemald before.
Estinien claims to be quite warm and toasty beneath his armor, and since he spent a fair bit of time up north recently as well, I have no reason to doubt his words.
Most of the others will be borrowing Grand Company stock. The rest of you could do likewise, I suppose, provided you're not overly concerned with style.
Hmm... Not to put too fine a point on it, but I wouldn't be seen dead in one of those ridiculous overcoats. If only I had time to find something to my liking...
Hark! Is that the cry of Scions in need of a tailor I hear?
B-But how!?
Muahaha! I have my ways. Oh yes, indeed!
You thought you could sneak off to Ilsabard without telling me?
Ha! Nothing escapes my notice!
Now, you will wear these garments I've made for you whether you like it or not!
You never cease to amaze!
But...why do you need a new outfit as well? Wait─are you coming with us!?
What? No. Of course not, silly. It's all in the name of fashion! Rather, the pursuit of the highest quality fashion! Besides, how can I expect others to wear my creations if I've never worn them myself?
Ah, I did have one other thing to share.
Aergmhus and Bluomwyda have finally returned from assignments in faraway lands!
They'll be staying at the Rising Stones for a while, to keep an eye on events throughout Eorzea.
Since they'll be running things back at headquarters...I was wondering...if I could lend a hand...in Sharlayan?
Oh, why not. You can keep Krile company in the Baldesion Annex.
Yes, we'd love to have you there. And I heard Aergmhus and Bluomwyda did a fine job carrying on in our stead while we were lying comatose. With them in charge of the Rising Stones, we've nothing to worry about.
My thoughts exactly! Also, while I'm confident you won't go collapsing again (because a certain someone who shall remain nameless isn't in a position to transport your souls to another world), if anything similarly disastrous were to happen, I'll be well positioned to do something about it.
Anyway, I've got a few things to take care of, and then I'll make my way to Sharlayan...
I really do hope these new clothes are enough to keep you warm in Garlemald.
It's not much, but it's the only thing I can do for you, other than pray for your safe return. Which I will. Every day...
Let's not keep the contingent waiting any longer.
Here are your winter woolies, handcrafted by yours truly!
