Show me your “vaunted” strength. And I shall expose the lie of your fragmented existence!
You are destined for naught else but oblivion!
Darkness reigns!
Flee, you fools!
The arcane is mine to command!
Give voice to your anguish, my brethren!
Give substance to our hopes, our dreams, our prayers...
And by their undeniable grace, may our perfect world rise anew!
Yawn wide, the ever-hungering void!
Devour the Light, and return all to Darkness!
Impressive resilience... But it matters little. I have all eternity to break your stubborn wills!
I am stifled by this vessel of flesh...
Unburden your sleeping souls, my brethren...
I shall bear every hope, every dream, every prayer!
The future of this star shall be shaped by my hands!
I shall be raised up by the prayers of my fallen brethren!
Behold, a sorcerer of eld! Tremble before my glory!
Darkness, flow through me!
Darkness, flow through me!
Hearken to the word of ruin!
Drown in despair!
My dormant brethren, dream now of a dark tomorrow...
By our gathered might must we reclaim these vain reflections.
In Zodiark's name, I beseech you!
In Zodiark's name, I beseech you!
Has the Wardens' Light won free!? No...
Damn you... Damn your wretched blessing!
I will extinguish the spark of your miserable lives!
I will extinguish the spark of your miserable lives!
That Light split the world, and every life upon it!
That Light split the world, and every life upon it!
Abomination! You seek to shatter my soul?
You...you have no power over me!
I...will...not...yield.
Should I surrender this fight, what will become of it all...?
What will become of our triumphs? Our hopes? Our...our despair?
No, no, no! I will not let it all be for naught!
Enough, damn you!
Such...infernal...strength...
Now! Strike with all thy might!
Remember...remember us...
Remember...that we once lived...
It's over. Emet-Selch is no more!
More importantly, how do you fare?
...What dost thou see?
Her aether... It is...it is as it used to be.
As a disciple of Zodiark, the Ascian was the Darkness to your Light...
I can but assume that when you set your strength against his, the Light within you was spent.
No. It's more than that.
Under the strain of that incredible flood of aether, your soul had begun to break apart. Yet now it seems somehow...restored.
I tried to help you before the battle, but Emet-Selch stopped me. So, h-how did you─exactly what did you... Can you tell us what happened?
I see...
Where to start...?
I believe I owe you all an apology. And you most especially.
No arguments here!
No arguments here!
Well... 'Tis good to be awake!
So, those mad souls dove straight into the ocean over there, did they?
Ah, a-all I could see from here was the whale, Master Chai...
'Twas surely Alphinaud and those friends of his! They did something heroic, mark my words!
You need only look up there for proof of that!
As you say, my love.
They're sure to be back─any moment now. Any moment...
They are coming back, aren't they? I couldn't bear the thought of...of...
There, there, dear. Everything will be all right...
There! There! Look, over there! Over at the beach!
Ho there!
Greetings!
You all right?
Welcome back!
I didn't think...we'd be swimming...the whole way back...
Heavens...heavens... Take me...
Alphinaud!? Oh, hells...
Wait! Where's Urianger!?
He must have fallen behind...
But...shouldn't we look for him!?
He'll wash up sooner or later.
For the love of...Alphinaud!
Welcome back, dear ones!
And thus did salvation come to the First.
The lamps of Amaurot will fade along with Emet-Selch's enchantments, and the depths shall be as once they were.
Mt. Gulg will one day fall, and the Talos below yield to wind and rain.
This tale, too, will fade with time, passing into legend as the world heals and moves on.
Nevertheless...
As aether obeys the cycle─as death and decay gives way to new life...
So too do the memories we share inspire others to rise to greatness.
For we who walk before may lead those who walk after.
Your road goes ever on, as does your story. As does your legacy.
Such is the hero's lot─to touch the lives of countless others...
