Welcome to the Moonfire Faire! It's always a treat to see a new face, and one from the guild doubly so. Did Mayaru Moyaru's mention of the Sunshine Savior stir the spirit of heroism within you?
Well, if it isn't Forename, as sure a guest to the Moonfire Faire as this stifling heat! Did Mayaru Moyaru's mention of the Sunshine Savior stir that heroic spirit of yours?
I should hope so, because between you and me, we're in a bit of a bind. If you wouldn't mind lending an ear to our troubles, I'd appreciate the opinion of a fellow adventurer.
Much obliged. You see, the faire's been no stranger to difficulties, make no mistake. People swimming where they shouldn't be, monsters treating the beaches like a bloody banquet, and all manner of other perils have put a damper on what's meant to be a time for celebration.
To combat this, I came up with the idea of the Sunshine Savior, a brave soul whose duty would be to nip such problems in the bud before they become everyone's headache.
Not only would they keep our patrons safe, but their deeds would raise the esteem of the guild as well. Not only that, but it would be the perfect opportunity to give our fresh blood a chance to shine.
So I went looking for a stout arm from within our ranks, and after a process of stringent vetting, settled on an eager youth by the name of Lyonell.
The lad seemed a perfect fit, but his spirits have taken a sharp dive since he arrived in Costa del Sol. Whatever the cause of his troubles, it's plain he needs a guiding hand or two to see him through them.
So, if you've got the time and the inclination, I'd like you to help set him on the right path. Once he's found his footing, I won't ask you to dote on him any longer. How about it?
You're a lifesaver, friend. Now then, follow me and I'll make introductions. Lyonell should be somewhere near the aetheryte─let's go find him, eh?
The sun burns bright, and that means the Moonfire Faire is come to offer respite! This year, the Sunshine Savior patrols the sands of Costa del Sol, ready to fight back anyone and anything that would dare to put a damper on the festivities.
Apologies, but the lad seems to be missing. I explicitly told him to wait here...
