How many times must I be made to explain myself!? I am not contemplating suicide, you imbecile─I have chosen this precise position to perform scientific measurements!
What have we here...a containment vessel!? Why, this is the handiwork of Professor Lamberteint! You thieving knave, I shall call for the─ Oh, you say the man himself lent it to you...
Then you must have sought me out per his instruction...which means he believes me experienced enough to expound upon his explanations! At last, the recognition I so rightfully deserve!
O frabjous day! Callooh! Callay! That I should be chosen to guide this woman. Yes, I, Hahasako, greatest of Professor Lamberteint's pupils, shall see that you successfully quarry your quarry.
Your timing is impeccable, in fact, for I was just preparing to procure corrupted crystals from the Burning Wall for my personal research.
There, the devastating destruction caused by the Calamity has blessed us with a bounty of sublime specimens.
But something tells me that naught but a perfect piece will satisfy your high standards. In which case, you must needs descend to the deepest depths. Amidst the flowing waters and the murderous mirrorknights lies the most fantastic formation I have found thus far.
Take this highly advanced researcher's tool and use it to separate a small fragment from the large cluster. Place it within the warded pot and bear it back to me for inspection.
The path which leads from Burgundy Falls to the base of the Burning Wall is treacherous and terrifying, but advance with appropriate caution and you shall surely survive.
I see you've come galumphing back. Have you the crystal then?
What a prodigiously large and lovely crystal! Professor Lamberteint will doubtless chortle with joy when you present it to him in person. Oh, and upon your return, do remember to recount how I helped you with your harvesting.
My keen scholar's sense tells me that you've obtained a corrupted crystal. Am I right?
If you would grant me a moment to examine the crystal... Ah, it is as you desired. A corrupted crystal overflowing with wind-aspected aether.
Hmmm... Remind me, for what purpose did you intend to use this crystal again? What!? To breach a barrier comprised of wind-aspected aether? Oh dear... That may prove problematic, as this crystal would only serve to strengthen the barrier.
I suppose I am at fault for not inquiring as to your objectives from the start. Had I known your intent, I would have never sent you to Hahasako.
But what is science if not trial and error? And can you truly say that this failure has taught you nothing?
Think, woman─you now understand the methods necessary to safely collect a corrupted crystal! You will doubtless have no difficulty doing so once more.
What's more, the crystal you collected can serve as an invaluable resource for the aetherial studies conducted by the Students of Baldesion.
You've heard of them? Well, I don't mean to boast, but I've a professional relationship with the organization. Not as equals, of course─I would never be so bold as to claim that level of expertise...
Are you all right? Your eyes seem to have glazed over for a moment. Anyway, I shan't keep you from your task. You've still a corrupted crystal to find!
Corrupted crystals of sufficient size and strength are not all that common, I fear. Fortunately, one of my other students, Ceana, claims to have discovered another promising site in eastern La Noscea.
Wait, that's not correct. Eastern La Noscea was where she was nearly killed when wandering too close to an imperial castrum. Hah hah, now that made for an amusing anecdote!
It was western La Noscea─Pharos Sirius, on the Isles of Umbra, to be precise.
I can't recall her exact reasoning─something to do with one of Dalamud's Talons or some such nonsense. What I can say for certain is that she is still in Aleport, attempting to gain access to the isles.
Why not travel there and see if Ceana's inquiries bear fruit? If you can look past the crass and violent ways of the local pirates, you might find your time there to be quite pleasurable. Oh, and do not forget to take your makeshift warded pot, lest she think you unprepared for the task.
