Until I am satisfied, we shall fight on! Give me your all!
On your guard! His strength far exceeds that of his brethren!
Hah! You have faced a samurai of Doma before!But I may yet surprise you...
Is that all you can muster, Eorzeans!? Hold naught back!
Such ferocity...! If he does not relent, we shall be forced to kill him!
...So be it. Moonstone Carbuncle! Come!
Stand within the Carbuncle's wards!They will grant you strength!
Enough. You are every bit the warriors you claim to be.
You fought with honor and restraint. You could have killed my men, and perhaps even me...but you did not. For this, I thank you.
Warriors brave and true. I pray you tell us of the battle for Doma's liberation.
We should be glad to do so...
...Lord Hien, returned! Such joy this news brings us.
But for Lord Gosetsu to perish in the keep's collapse...to be taken from us by such treachery... There is no justice...
You knew him well. Aye, he would not suffer us to mourn with so much undone. And so we will not. Duty comes before all.
But I knew the man, and he would not suffer us to mourn on the eve of this great bttle. Duty comes before all.
All Lupin shall know of Doma's liberation, and of your part in it.
When you breach the gates, we shall turn on the imperials as one. With fang and claw shall we rip open the throats of our masters. This the White swears.
Thank you. When our war is ended, I am certain that your lord will help us to return you all to Doma.
Such a curious thing, destiny, to see us meet with friends of Lord Hien in this distant corner of the world. But we shall not keep you─your day is not yet done.
Come, let us not keep our comrades waiting. We have a nation to liberate!
Ah, you are returned. Were your negotiations with the wolfmen successful?
The one they call the White was receptive to our words once we told him of Doma's liberation.
They withdrew behind the walls to inform their brethren. If the gods are good, no blood shall be shed between our peoples this day.
Hear, hear. Now...I think it's time we did something about those gates.
Thaumaturges, forward!
Give me hellfire! Give me Ifrit's bloody inferno!
Now give me a Coerthan winter! Enough ice and snow to bury a behemoth!
All cannons, fire at will! Let no man say we neglected to knock!
Damn that armor! We nearly had it!
Is that─?
Bear witness, my Eorzean brothers and sisters!Doma is come to pay her debts!
Lord Hien!
We will deal with the flying machines!Forward, my friends! For freedom and justice!
You heard the man! All cannons, resume firing!
We're through! The way is clear!
Impeccable timing, those Domans! Come, comrades! The enemy's gate is down! Forward!
The battle for Ala Mhigo is at hand! All forces have been ordered to advance into the city proper!
Forename, Alphinaud. May I ask you to be part of the first charge?
'Twould be our honor!
I will join them, as but another soldier.
The command of the Flames, I leave in your capable hands, Pipin.
I don't suppose we could come along too?
Lyse! Arenvald!
Naago and the others told me to go with you, Forename. To bring Zenos to account, for everyone.
I'm Ala Mhigan too, in case anyone's forgotten. My place is in the thick of it, and it doesn't get thicker than where you'll be.
Let us sally forth, then! Together, we make for the Royal Palace, there to find and strike down Zenos!
To the Royal Palace!
Commander Rhiki has cleared the way for us!
Much obliged for the help!
The front gate's well defended as you'd expect.
The way to the palace is clear!
Look! The others have made it in as well!
Watch out! Artillery!
Move it, move it!
What in the world is that floating chair?
Recording subject's performance...
I shall have to share these findings...
Initiate soul extraction!
Hah! Success!
The soul rebels!?
My word, this data...
Impossible...incredible!
Wh-What just happened...?
As if a little barrier like this can stop us!
The throne room is just ahead. And inside...
Zenos! This time we settle this!
Like a moth to the flame...But why else would you come, if not for this?
Let this moment last forever...
Show me your all...
Have you the strength?
The power...to transcend...
Whew... Still standing...
I'm not losing to you again!
Leave the healing to me!
How glorious the violence within you...
Heh heh heh heh...
Ahahahahahaha! Yes, yes! Such ferocity, such tenacity!
I am loath to recall how disappointed I was when first we fought...but finally, finally, after bathing in the blood and offal of your enemies, finally you prove yourself worthy prey for the hunt!
It fills you even now, doesn't it? The hunger. To bite down on my jugular, to feel the warmth fill your mouth and run over even as you drink deep. Good, good! This is the beast I have longed to face!
As you sharpened your claws, I too sought newfound strength! But this is no place for a final contest. Come! The heavens shall bear witness to our dance!
Confound it!
Go after Zenos, my friend! We shall deal with this!
Welcome to the Royal Menagerie.
The King of Ruin built this place for his foreign queen. He kept it filled with familiar creatures from her homeland. They bored me all.
This fine specimen, on the other hand, is simply...divine.
Your fates are entwined, are they not, eikon-slayer? This dragon, this...embodiment of unbridled despair, born of a desperate man's burning hatred for the Empire...
How raw the raging tempest that churns within its breast. No myth made manifest this, but...a being of pure violence.
Hah hah, mayhap you are the true architect of our design. You who fought the very soul of vengeance to the edge and watched him fall; you who let slip the Allagan hound to drive this eikon into my arms!
Oh... My. Have I said too much? Forgive me, this...sensation is wholly unfamiliar to me.
A question, then─and I should like very much for you to speak from the heart. If I were to stand aside, what would you do to this eikon?
