......
......
...Thank you. What you're doing, it...it means a lot to them. To me.
...Sorry to interrupt. We, uh... We realized we hadn't thanked you for rescuing Halric.
...You weren't hurt at all, were you?
Hurt...? There wasn't even a fight. I was too late. Too slow.And I thought I could protect you...
You can't blame yourself for things beyond your control. You brought Halric back safe and sound─no one could have done any more.
I'm sorry, but I've come to a decision: I won't be continuing in my role here.
I hope you will forgive me for leaving you...and that you will delay Halric's last meal for as long as you possibly can.
Not until it's too late, of course, just...give him what time you can.
We always do.
Of course. She would have done the same.
Farewell, Halric. Keep Tesleen's words close to your heart.
Wait! You're leaving this very moment? I understand how you must feel, but surely this is a bit hasty? Do you even have anywhere to go?
I have a destination in mind, yes. And a purpose.
This damned Light, building without cease... It's the reason we can't save those corrupted by the eaters.
But what if we corrected the balance? Even if it were only little by little─even if it took years─it would surely make things better.
Now, hold on there. Everyone knows there's too much Light, but how could you ever hope to get rid of it? You'd have to change the whole world!
That's right...
We should return to the Crystarium. I may not be able to repel the eaters on my own...but I can still use the skills I have gained here to hurt them.
Forgive me, Forename─I couldn't stay there a moment longer.
But I was serious about what I said. While the men and women at the Inn battle against this blight with kindness, I must fight it in my own way. With steel.
Miss Alisaie!? ...Is there anything I can get you?
Your swiftest amaro! I need to return to the Crystarium─immediately!
A-As you wish!
Ugh, remind me to wear goggles if we ever fly over Amh Araeng again. I've barely gotten the sand out of my eyes.
...But the wind did help to clear my head at least.
I think I'm ready to meet with the Exarch. We need to talk about how we're going to wipe the sin eaters out. Shall we?
Do you have business with the Crystal Exarch? Just say the word, and I would be happy to escort you to the Ocular.
Thank you for seeking me out, Forename─it meant a lot to have you there at my side. And looking at Alphinaud, I'd say he's as eager to begin this discussion as I am.
I say we lay our experiences before the Exarch, and step back to see what kind of picture they make. Then we can decide where to go from here.
And so you return.
Have you gained a better understanding of the crisis now faced by the First?
"Better“ is not the word I would use.
Some lands may have been spared the Flood, but the survivors live only to suffer. There seems no end to the horrors inflicted by the sin eaters.
Indeed. Those abominations are a calamity in their own right. And I can well imagine how hopeless the task of eradicating them must seem to you.
But after countless battles and untold sacrifice, we have identified a potential weakness.
Sin eaters are drawn to serve the strongest of their kind─a class of creature we call “Lightwardens.” And from what we have been able to ascertain, only a handful of these entities exist.
Just as an ant colony will perish in the absence of its queen, we believe that the death of a Lightwarden will cause the lesser creatures within its sphere of influence to disperse.
I have a feeling Eulmore might have something to say about any concerted action we take against these monsters.
Vauthry's command over the sin eaters is integral to Eulmoran society. In seeming to guarantee his people's safety, it guarantees their obedience.
He will not take kindly to us depriving him of such useful allies.
Agreed. Thus we will need to occupy or otherwise divert his forces whilst we proceed with the business of eliminating the Wardens.
Until we have done so, all other considerations must be set aside if we are to forestall the Eighth Umbral Calamity.
Your uncertainty is understandable, given the circumstances. Perhaps a more detailed explanation is in order. To begin at the beginning, then...
In the ancient past, a single star was divided into fourteen worlds.
This is the Source─your home. These others are the thirteen shards, in whose number we find the First.
Though physically separate, they retain a connection to each other, and with the Source especially.
Now, let us assume that a given element in one of the shards attains abnormal ascendancy.
Just as water will flow from the highest point to the lowest, the excess energy will begin trickling into the Source...
And such an influx of aether will of course exert a palpable influence.
If the element in question were fire, then drought and wild fires might ensue. If it were ice, one might expect the weather to turn bitterly cold.
As aether continues to pour in, such phenomena will become more and more extreme, until eventually, a single untimely event triggers a disaster which “cracks” the barrier dividing the two worlds.
What was once a trickle now becomes a deluge, sweeping the shard along to be rejoined with the Source.
At the same time, the element which held sway in the shard is unleashed in full, its energies amplifying the original disaster to truly catastrophic proportions.
An earthquake thus magnified might strike with enough force to shatter continents; a tidal wave might swell to a size capable of drowning entire nations.
These devastating events are what we refer to as “Umbral Calamities.”
Seven times has a calamity befallen the Source; seven times has a shard been absorbed.
At present, the Light-drowned realm of the First stands perilously close to meeting the conditions for a Rejoining.
It is the sin eaters who are to blame for the Light's continued dominance.
In addition to attracting their lesser kin, the Lightwardens I mentioned earlier radiate aether, saturating every corner of their territory with Light.
Even here in the Flood-spared region of Norvrandt, their influence is strong enough to banish night from the sky.
Thus, if we are to restore balance to the First and head off a potential calamity, it is imperative that we put each and every Lightwarden to the sword.
We've been doing our best to take the fight to the enemy ever since we first heard the Exarch's explanation.
Though we have yet to claim any meaningful victories, if truth be told.
Apart from being confoundingly elusive, the Lightwardens possess a troublesome quality which compelled us to delay our plans until such time as you arrived.
Forgive the interruption, my lord, but Holminster Switch is requesting reinforcements!
They say the sin eaters are attacking in force, and the village could soon be overrun.
Alert the guard. We should be prepared in case the fighting reaches the Crystarium.
You have command of our forces in the field, Captain, but hold off on entering the town until I arrive. That goes for Alphinaud and Alisaie as well.
My lord!
Pray, lend us your strength. Such a fight will provide you with far greater insight than any explanation I could offer.
Holminster Switch is in the north of Lakeland, so we had best make haste with our preparations.
In fact, meet me outside the Crystarium at the crossroads northwest of the Accensor Gate, and I shall lead you there myself.
All set? If we follow this road north, we will arrive at the Northern Staging Point.
The village itself lies not far beyond. Quickly, now!
Holminster Switch is past these gates and through the woods. 'Tis not exactly a near neighbor to the Crystarium, but as we occupy the same region, we have built up something of a cooperative relationship.
What can we expect inside, Captain?
The town is beset by a swarm unlike any we have seen in recent years. We did our best to evacuate the villagers, but as many as half remain...
Judging by the number of eaters present, we have good reason to believe that a Lightwarden leads the attack.
How convenient. It seems we'll have our chance to slay a Warden sooner than we expected.
<snort> One does not simply “slay a Warden.” Has no one told you what happens if you defeat one of those fiends?
They hold more Light inside them than all of their underlings put together.
It can be struck down, aye, but its essence won't dissipate like the weaker kind. Vile aether will billow outwards and envelop the nearest living being─a reckless young swordswoman, perhaps─and turn her into a brand-new Warden.
Ah, well you can leave that particular quandary to us. I must ask that the guard stand down and allow us to engage this leader of eaters alone.
Concentrate on the survivors─we must save every life we can.
But what if─!?
...Understood, my lord. As captain of the guard, however, I will not watch you brave such danger without an escort from our ranks. I insist that I go with you.
Very well. Then our Warden-slaying party shall include myself, the Leveilleurs, Captain Lyna, and last but not least...
A formidable group indeed.Into Holminster we go! Once we reach the Lightwarden, do not hold back─we strike to kill!
As you may have deduced, the “troublesome quality” of the Wardens which I endeavored to raise earlier was this confounded capacity for spontaneous rebirth...
...But the Exarch seems confident he has matters in hand, so I shall trust that we may slay our foe without fear of the aetheric aftermath. My restorative spells are at your disposal.
I can't help but wonder if the scale of this raid is related to the “recruiting” the eaters were doing in Amh Araeng.
Not that it matters. After all the combat I saw there, I'm more than ready to test my magicks against one of these greater abominations!
Destroy a Lightwarden for good...? Hmph. If it is possible now, then why not before? Whatever the Exarch believes, I will force a retreat if I deem it necessary.
I did not become captain of the guard by being meek. Or weak.
Command of this sortie is yours. Though I am not as spry as I once was, I hope my long years of experience will serve you in some capacity.
I can wield spells to heal or harm, or even fashion an arcane shield and sword should we have need of a defensive wall. Simply say the word.
Oh gods, that sin eater...It can't be...
The eaters corrupt everything...
This is the monster we saw in Amh Araeng!
Easy now, Alisaie.We face it together!
Is everyone alright?
We're fine!Let's keep moving...
Look, there are still survivors!
Have the gods no mercy...?
Another eater!
...So, this is where you went.
