I require no assistance, comrade. Lord Hien's instructions to me were quite clear─I need only transcribe them for the benefit of our Xaela allies.
Speaking of Lord Hien, if you are eager to be of service, mayhap you could seek him out? Keep an eye on him, perchance, should he decide to venture outside?
Hmm, let me guess: someone asked you to act as my protector? Hah! To hear them mutter, one would think I intended to stride up to the castle gates on my own!
The truth, of course, is rather less dramatic. I had hoped to look on the castle one last time before the battle. Would you care to join me? You would be setting a lot of fretful minds at rest...
Very good! Then let us depart for Monzen at once.
Monzen was home to many great and powerful families. Men of honor─samurai. Once...
Great swaths were razed, and people put to the sword. What little remains stands as a testament to what was...and what will never be again.
...Come. I would take a closer look.
No sentries, at least of the living sort. Those shambling suits of armor have the run of the place. To think this was once a bustling street, so full of life...a river of people, with a current all its own...
...But even then, the imperials walked among us. Sometimes openly, sometimes discreetly, but we were always aware of their presence. And we...we were complicit.
He did what he had to do to preserve the peace. To keep our people safe. But at what cost...
F-Forgive me, this is neither the time nor the place for such dark musings! Though they did serve to remind me of the barracks which once stood to the west of here...where there may yet be weapons our comrades could use.
If you head down that street, past those makeshift barricades, you will come to the ruins. I will search elsewhere. Meet me at the water's edge when you have finished.
Alas, I found naught of value. Did you?
Still sheathed in its scabbard...though even shielded from the elements, it will need to be cleaned and oiled─
...I recognize the crest. It belonged to the son of a samurai I trained with when I was young.
He never even had the chance to draw it...
There she is. Doma Castle. My home.
They let us keep her for a time, before gradually moving their forces across from Fluminis. Now her every court and corridor belongs to Yotsuyu.
Though Father spent much of his time there, I did not. I may only have visited him there on half a dozen occasions, if that. I cannot remember.
But I remember the view from the keep. Doma seemed much smaller from there. Like you could hold it in your hands.
Well, Monzen at least. Doma is so much more than that. There, beyond the Moon Gates, unto the shores of the Ruby Sea, and here, in the places that no man can see or touch or take from you...
We carry her with us, wheresoever we go.
Not the land or the soil...but the story.
And what is life if not a story? The story of our journey from dawn to dusk, day after day after day. The story of our mothers and our fathers, our families and our friends, our peoples and our nations.
I think a part of me understood that, when I looked out from the keep.Hien, son of Kaien. Another caretaker of the story of Doma.
It's a fine castle, truly, with an even finer view. But in the end...
In...in the end...
Kami strike me down, how could I be so blind! We must return to the House of the Fierce at once!
I have had what can only be described as a revelation. Ours is an excellent plan, but not so excellent that it cannot be improved─and I know how.
On second thought, Forename, I ask that you return to the House of the Fierce without me, and tell Alphinaud to call the others together for a meeting.
It is imperative that the Kojin emissary be in attendance as well. I shall join you anon.
Lord Hien wishes to discuss the details of our plan? Very well, if he insists. I shall summon the others at once.
As for the Kojin, I believe one of their emissaries was already en route. Nevertheless, I shall contact them to make certain.
May I present the Blue Kojin's emissary.
Greetings and well met, old friends! The elder sends his regards.
Soroban! It's good to have you with us!
If, uh, you might humor me...
Thank you for coming, Soroban. Doubtless you have already been informed of our plans and the role we would have your people play. However, I seek your counsel as a Kojin of the Blue.
Be it by spell or siegecraft, could your forces destroy the underwater foundations of Doma Castle's outer wall?
Hmm... Explosives, coupled with a few incantations... Yes, that might produce sufficient force. Such a thing could indeed be done.
Then I wish to revise the plan.
Instead of assisting the Confederacy in securing the enclave, I would have the Kojin advance upstream, beneath the water, and breach a segment of the outer wall.
I mean to flood Doma Castle.
My lord, the castle is a sacred symbol─the very heart of our nation!To destroy it is unthinkable, unconscionable─you cannot do this!
I can and I will if it improves our chances. By flooding the castle we remove the better part of their forces from the field and force Yotsuyu to retreat to the highest levels of the keep. Tell me that is not a worthwhile trade.
But, my lord...that castle was entrusted to you by your father, and his father before him. I say to you again: it is the heart of our nation.
Stone walls do not a nation make, my friend. Her people do.And as long as we yet live, we can rebuild.
So let us only think of this battle. Of victory here and now. For without that, we have no future.
I see that you are resolved, Lord Hien, and I would not presume to gainsay your decision.
I will inform the elder of your revised stratagem, and instruct our sappers to make ready.
Our preparations are all but complete. Once we receive word from our Kojin allies, we shall set our plans in motion. We shall fight, and we shall prevail.
No plan is perfect, and there is ever room for improvement. I expect my comrades will be refining their approach until the moment they begin.
In case you are unaware, the other jonin will lead the assault on the Moon Gates, not I. My place is at Lord Hien's side.
If there's nothing else, I'll head back to Namai. Tsuranuki's working hard, and Isse's doing what he can to help, but maybe there's more that I can do too.
He was like a different person when he began hammering those plates. Younger, brighter, full of life and hope...
The plan is set, and all that can be done has been done. Rest and relaxation are now paramount, for tomorrow we may die.
Have you too not done enough? Will you not pause a moment to gather yourself on the eve of our grand design? Go not unto battle with weary eyes or lingering regrets, my friend.
Considering the key role you will play, I think it only prudent that you refrain from further labors and rest until tomorrow. Agreed?
We shall speak again in the morning. Take care, my friend...
True enough, true enough. When you have seen to your sundry tasks and are ready to retire, I pray you let me know.
You're awake. I was just, um... Well, they threw me out, actually.Told me I needed to get some sleep, ready for the big day.
Not long now, eh? I'm nervous, of course, but I also feel like...like I didn't know where I was going, but maybe, finally...
Something's gonna change, you know? Really, really change. And when the dust has settled, we'll see what we've won...and what we've lost...
I'm going to give it my all tomorrow. Everything I've seen and felt...I won't let it be for nothing.
Right. Off to bed! Don't want to overdo it─and neither should you.
Oh, but before you sleep, you should look in on Alphinaud and Alisaie.Quietly, of course.
Ho, another restless soul. Come, come─raise a glass to freedom.
Mmm, good, good. I should be interested to know her thoughts on the matter!
That's enough, Gosetsu. You'll not convince anyone with your drunken ramblings.
We've talked about this. All of us. We are flooding the castle tomorrow, and that's the end of it.
I know, I know! I accepted your decision, and I do not intend to go back on my word. Nevertheless, as the battle draws near, I cannot help but recall our many travails, and it fair compels me to speak...
In all my time serving as a leader of men, there are two failures which haunt me to this day.
The first, our defeat at the hands of the Empire twenty-five years past, and the subsequent imprisonment of your father.
Long did I consider offering up my life in atonement, until Lord Kaien, allowed at last to receive visitors, called for me of all people...
“For my unborn child,” he said, “for my dearest Shun─live!”
My second failure, of course, was the betrayal of that selfsame command, when in the rebellion I failed to protect not only Lord Kaien, but Lord Hien too...
That I yet live, having known such disgrace, is an affront to the kami themselves...
Yet you...all of you...saw fit to grant this shameful creature, this failure, another chance...to serve a greater purpose...
Thank you...for pitying an old fool...
Now, now, it is far too soon for that. Save your tears for the morrow. You may be sure we will have ample cause to shed them, be they for joy or despair.
Bah! Even that sounds morose. We who yet walk the path should not think too much on the destination. When the hour arrives, we shall welcome what comes with open arms.
He is right about one thing, though─we have you and yours to thank for this chance.
All debts will be repaid. On that you have my word. But first, we must live past tomorrow, no?
If you've no intention of sleeping, Yugiri, you may as well join us.
Forgive me, my lord. I did not mean to, uh... If that is your will...
There she is. I trust you are none the worse for wear after last night.
We received confirmation from the Kojin not long ago. Their sappers stand at the ready and await our signal.
Let us not keep them and the others waiting. Gather your things─we depart at once.
Alphinaud─instruct Lyse and the others to move into position and launch their attack.
Our scouts report no change in the imperials' disposition, but I would leave nothing to chance. We must act quickly, lest we lose the element of surprise.
Understood. I will relay your orders to her and rejoin my unit.
Gosetsu and Yugiri await the two of you at Monzen. Good luck, my friends. I will see you both again soon.
Understood. Wish us luck.
Right, you all know what you have to do. Are you ready?
Oh, yes. Ready to show them what a good job they made of breaking us!
Then what are you waiting for? Move out!
Why must we waste our time guarding this blasted...
Sound the alarum! Fluminis is under attack! Armed insurgents have breached the perimeter! We need reinforcements!
This is Lyse. Imperial forces converging on our position. Looks like we've got their attention. We'll be sure to keep them busy for as long as we can!
Ahh...war. To wield power, to make men kneel before you.There is no better feeling.
A pity I must share this pleasure with a feral dog of a Dotharl!
Preening, Oronir! You fear that she will put the Sun in shade!
Those are for you. Go. Claim your prey.
Bwahahaha! Come to me! Come to your death! With each that falls, my soul soars higher!
Swiftly, brothers! Fall not behind!Make an offering of their steel to Father Azim!
They seem to be enjoying themselves...
My lord! The barrier!
That it should fall so soon!Truly, our allies seem determined to surpass each other!
The magitek field is down. I repeat, the magitek field is down!Confederate vessels, you are clear to advance upon the enclave!
The wall is breached! The Kojin, too, will not be outdone!
Our allies have set the stage. Now we must take the castle.
With me!
