Oh! A thousand pardons, my lady.
The Scions of the Seventh Dawn, I presume? I hope your voyage was not too trying.
...And you are?
Ah, yes, of course! Forgive me. Hancock, of the East Aldenard Trading Company, at your service. On behalf of Chairman Lolorito, I bid you welcome to Kugane, and invite you to take refreshments at our local offices.
Lolorito? I was aware his interests extended beyond the borders of Eorzea, but not so far as Kugane.
Regardless, I am disinclined to accept the hospitality of grinning merchants─especially those who serve a master with whom we have such a difficult relationship.
My, such naked suspicion!
I do hope that business with the Crystal Braves did not rob you of all faith in your fellow man. Or do you really think the chairman is plotting to drag you into another one of his grand schemes?
I beg your pardon!?If you are trying to win my trust, you are failing quite spectacularly.
Oh dear, have I offended you?
Once again, I must apologize. Too much time in the Far East, you see. One is compelled to talk in circles around everything here, and one finds oneself longing for the invigoratingly candid speech of the Ul'dahn markets...though I see now that this was neither the time nor the place to indulge said longing.
...Might I suggest that we continue this conversation at the company offices? Too many eyes and ears here, you understand. 'Twould be decidedly reckless to say any more.
If I may favor you with the invigorating candor you apparently crave─it would be decidedly reckless to follow a man I neither know nor trust. Give me one good reason why we should accept Lord Lolorito's invitation.
Now, there's the young diplomat I was told to expect! Very well, then,I shall explain. You understand that you are come to a most reclusive and secretive nation, yes? One whose borders are closed to foreign trade save at this single port?
Then it should come as no surprise that a great many parties have vested interests here. Merchants like myself are a given, of course, but for every one of us, you may be certain there is also an agent of a foreign government.
Many notable nations and empires have embassies here, you know─including, of course, the Garlean Empire, with whom you have such a...difficult relationship.
To paraphrase, Kugane is teeming with imperial spies, one or several of whom could now be listening to our every word.
Something to that effect, yes. Beneath this veneer of bustling trade, a war for supremacy is being waged between world powers. One might say we were standing on the front lines...just not in public.
I still have my doubts, but he may have a point.I say we accept his invitation─for now.
And you must be Forename Surname! Slayer of Gods... Rider of Dragons... Savior of Ishgard... Stealer of Pants─if some of the more puzzling rumors are to be believed.
I knew it! May I say what an honor and a pleasure it is to make your acquaintance, my lady. I just know you and I are going to get along famously!
Now then, without further ado, allow me to escort you to the company offices.
This being your first visit to our fair city, I shall make an effort to point out various landmarks along the way. If you would be so good as to follow me!
Everyone! If I could have your attention, please. You are now standing in Tenkonto.
Loosely translated, the name means “spire of drifting souls,” which─as some of you may have deduced─makes reference to the aetheryte which stands over yonder.
Hmm... The design is markedly different from those of Sharlayan, yet I trust its function is identical?
A diplomat and a scholar! Will wonders never cease.
Far Eastern aetheryte technologies have a long and storied tradition, I assure you. This particular example was constructed by the Onishishu, a collective of skilled craftsmen, who guard their ancestral techniques with the utmost secrecy.
In short, you will find it no less reliable than its western counterparts. Attune, if you like.
Beautiful though it may be, we cannot spend all day staring at the aetheryte.
Come, come, let us move along. The markets are next!
We have arrived at the largest shopping district in Kugane: Kogane Dori!
“Kugane,” as you are doubtless unaware, is an ancient Hingan word for gold. So, in this prosperous port where golden fortunes are made, lesser fortunes, or “kogane,” are earned by the local merchants. It's all quite logical once you learn the language.
Heh heh heh... Now you're beginning to speak my language...
Oho! A kindred spirit! What a pleasure it is to meet a young lady who appreciates the value of hard-won coin!
