The festival is a prayer for healthy crops, but does she honestly believe that will be enough to save our harvest?
The Second Promise, meanwhile, barely glanced at the fields before leaving Ok'hanu altogether. Maybe we asked too much of our young claimants...
Oh, I wouldn't be too quick to count Koana out. A friend of mine overheard him muttering by the reeds. Something about what “needs to be done.”
Is that so!? Perhaps we'll get to see another of his innovations firsthand.
Heh, that sounds like our Koana. One look at the reeds was all he needed to think up a solution...
Be that as it may, our own solution is nearly ready.
Indeed! As soon as the others get back, our long-awaited festival can begin!
It took some doing, but we managed to gather competitors to vie for the title of Wind's Chosen. The winner was only too happy to donate his feathers.
You should've seen it! He called forth an incredible gust that sent his feather sailing for malms!
We had a turn ourselves, but it's more difficult than it looks. Poor Erenville's twirled in the air for a moment before landing on his foot...
I am a gleaner. Magic is not part of our training.
As for us, we've brought the wood and gemstone replacements crafted by Wuk Evu. All that's left is to attach them.
Has it been decided who will ride the float?
Papa was the guest of honor the last time I was here. I remember being surprised they could even lift the thing with his hulking weight on top of it.
The rider must be a personage of great esteem, which is why an invitation is usually extended to the Dawnservant. This time, however, I have another in mind.
Oh, who is it?
Our beloved Ihih'hana, the Lifting of Wings, is only being held because of you and your companions. Thus do I nominate you, Wuk Lamat, as our guest of honor.
Huh? Me!?
...This boat won't make me seasick, will it?
I...don't think so?
Then weigh anchor! I can hardly refuse a request from one even more enthusiastic about the festival than me!
I would be delighted to ride your float!
Thank you, Wuk Lamat.
I have roles for the rest of you as well. We'll be carrying the festival float in a slow procession towards Kozanuakiy, where the sacred likeness of Kixaihih is ensconced.
What I'd like you to do is clear the path of dangerous wildlife, so that the procession can move along unimpeded.
Consider it done.
You expect me to sit still until Wuk Evu has finished with the float? Let me come along and help with the clearing!
As you know, I'm not much for fighting. I'll stay behind and assist Wuk Evu with the repairs.
If you aren't sure where you need to go, the path I spoke of begins at the south of the village and branches off to the east. That will lead you across the bridges to the Stride of the Sun.
Then we shall see to clearing it end to end.
The Ihih'hana procession often runs afoul of territorial creatures on the way to Kozanuakiy. I would greatly appreciate you removing those threats in advance.
With my lack of combat skills, I would only get underfoot. Happy hunting.
I'll get to work. By the time you're done mashing monsters, the float will be good as new.
The degree to which Wuk Evu pursues his interests is remarkable. Apparently his studies of the Kozama'uka region were so invigorating that he decided to move here and immerse himself in the culture.
If the float functions as I think it does, I would not be surprised if it were attracting the creatures. The concentration of aether would be an irresistible lure.
Weapons at the ready! We'll make short work of this task!
As Linuhanu said, Kozanuakiy should be down this way, then off to the east when the path branches. Then something about bridges and the Stride of the Sun...?
Anyway, let's split up and get to work. Once you've culled all the threats you can find, we'll meet up in front of Kixaihih!
Anyway, let's split up and get to work. Once you've culled all the threats you can find, we'll meet up in front of Kixaihih!
I told you, you don't need to watch over me anymore.
I told you, you don't need to watch over me anymore.
Hah! That's one down!
At this rate, we'll soon have the route to Kozanuakiy secured.
At this rate, we'll soon have the route to Kozanuakiy secured.
Now this is my kind of busywork!
Ah, you were a step ahead of us.
This must be the likeness of Kixaihih.
The Hanuhanu deity of the harvest.
Makes you appreciate how much their culture revolves around the reed harvest, doesn't it? It's said that Kixaihih was worshipped on another continent. This ancient faith was then brought to Tural by the first Hanuhanu.
One of the ancients' creations?
'Tis possible a vestigial memory of that time endured. A subconscious recollection from the inheriting soul providing the basis for an entirely new religion.
I... have no idea what that means.
As far as I know, Kixaihih was worshipped on another continent. This ancient faith was then brought to Tural by the first Hanuhanu.
A whale? Why a whale of all things...? Anyway, it's said that Kixaihih here was worshipped on another continent. This ancient faith was then brought to Tural by the first Hanuhanu.
The Hanu migrated here from another continent? Then mayhap the two do share a common ancestor...
This is all very fascinating, but shouldn't we be getting back to Linuhanu? He'll want to know the path is safe for the procession.
Right, and I need to ride on the float! I'll run ahead and tell him we're done here!
Right, and I need to ride on the float! I'll run ahead and tell him we're done here!
Right, and I need to ride on the float! I'll run ahead and tell him we're done here!
Not sure we heard you right, old man. Why don't you say that again.
As many times as you like. The Third Promise tasked me with repairing this float, and I'll not relinquish it to an uncultured brute like you.
Much less one that can't even manage a simple greeting.
We wanted to handle this in a civilized way, but we're more than willing to kill you.
We have a two-headed problem. Yes, please hurry.
...She's on her way back already?
S-S-Stand back, Wuk Evu! I will protect the float!
Are you trying to be brave, little bird?
I could never have repaired the float alone─not properly. But thanks to Wuk Lamat and her friends, we can hold Ihih'hana again!
This is a priceless treasure...and as festival leader, I would die to protect it!
Very well, if that's what you want.
Bakool Ja Ja!
Wha─!?
I put everything into that blow...
Good. The better for you to understand the gulf between us.
But you need more lessons! We'll carve them into your mangy hide until you cry and beg forgiveness!
Your brilliant plan was to steal the float and take the credit? The so-called “blessed siblings” are nothing but cheats!
Your scorn is sweet music. Come, weaklings─we'll crush you each in turn...or all together, if you like!
Calm yourself, chosen one! If you fight in earnest, this will end in a massacre!
What's more, we have word that our “other” prospect is on the verge of success!
Then it would be foolish to expend effort swatting gnats.
Lucky for you, eh?
Two-heads. I see Mamook still clings to that loathsome hope...
Talk to us, Third Promise! You're not dying, are you!?
Hah! It'll take more than that to kill me!
So...are we having this festival or not?
...Yes! Yes, we are!
A tense encounter. I'm thankful Alphinaud thought to share those linkpearls.
I'm glad we kept the float out of Bakool Ja Ja's clutches, but gods... He brushed me aside like I was a bothersome gnat.
I'm thankful we made it back before anyone was seriously injured.
Given the nature of the rite of succession, I expect such altercations are inevitable.
He waited for us to leave so he could steal the float. A coward and a thief!
If I've learned one thing in my life, it's that poor manners often betray poor character.
Thank you for coming to our rescue.
I tried to protect the float, but against that two-head... I may as well have not been there at all.
Nonsense! You stood your ground and bought us the time we needed to make it back. You were incredibly brave!
I was so afraid Wuk Lamat would come to harm... Ok'hanu has seen enough death.
With that exciting interlude over, you'll be pleased to know that my repairs are finished as well.
Before we commence the festival, however, it would be a courtesy to inform the villagers that Ihih'hana will be held after all.
Go forth, but do not forget your greetings! At this stage, I should hope the reminder is unnecessary.
Ohokaliy! See? I remember!
Don't tell me you've forgotten the greeting? Fine, watch closely...
Ohokaliy!
