Blasted assistants! Where have they gone off to at a time like this?
Beg pardon, but I have not the time for idle chitchat. I need to reconfirm that aether levels are consistent throughout the vessel's machinery, and it seems I shall have to do so single-handedly! I swear, when I find those assistants of mine...
...The Loporrits are willing to help? Why didn't you say so?
At least they won't moan about how they “checked two dozen times already” and “haven't slept in weeks.” Lazy sods...
It's fine to admit you're scared, you know?
The density, however...
In the long run, however, most of you won't die!
When you put it that way...
Will so much dust not cause respiratory problems?
That estimate seems accurate to me...
Growingway has been a godssend. I can look upon what we've built with clarity now.
Forename! He said... He said he was glad we spoke! And he thanked me...
<sniff> It was all worth it after all, wasn't it? E-Even the mistakes we made. Because now, we can tell them what not to do...
Behold, Forename...
Through thine efforts, word hath spread throughout Labyrinthos.
Verily, to a far greater number than we anticipated. Livingway doth gather more Loporrits as we speak.
I shall assign each in accordance with their skills, that new bonds of friendship might be forged.
Should greater matters require not thine attentions...watch over them, I prithee.
I pray that Livingway is joyed to see so many heartened souls when she doth return.
Phew! Finally, some rest. Why, I haven't spoken so much in...well, in forever!
Lively, isn't it? The town is abuzz─everyone eager to meet with our friends from the moon.
'Twould behoove you to consult with Sleepingway. As our moon's pilot, his advice should be most pertinent...
I'm impressed. Truth be told, I struggle to tell one from another. No offense intended, of course...
None taken! After you and your friends left Mare Lamentorum, we spent no small amount of time with your Urianger.
Oh, the conversations we had! He told us all about Etheirys─answered our every question, no matter how trifling or trivial.
Look! Every page, filled to the margins with knowledge!
When I first arrived, I was struck by how little I knew. It was daunting...but then I realized that were it not for Urianger and his teachings, we'd still be stuck on the moon. Gazing at your world and wondering what we've been missing...
What would they think if they could see Urianger now? I daresay they'd be more than a bit surprised...and impressed, no doubt.
Master Louisoix, Minfilia, Papalymo. And not to forget...
