You. Yellowjacket. I want ye to tell me one thing, and tell it true.
This is Limsa Lominsa─the greatest port in all the realm. Ye could find this fleet o' yers without our 'elp, yet you've come 'ere beggin' fer it. Why?
Because... Because I reckon you're the ones who need the Risin' most.
The Black Sails only came together 'cause o' Carteneau. Ye could've upped anchor and sailed off into the sunset, but no─ye fought like demons on those cursed flats. Made 'eroes o' yerselves, and martyrs...
The way I see it, 's only right that those that lost the most, when they stood to gain the least, should be the ones to fire the salute to the departed.
An' a salute to the departin', too. The Calamity changed the lives o' you pirates more'n anyone. If anyone should be celebratin' new beginnin's, it's those whose new beginnin's already begun!
Heh heh... Ha ha ha! So it's all fer our own good, is it?
I'm 'eadin' back to the Astalicia. Send word when ye've 'ammered out the details o' this display o' yers. We'll see what we can do.
Aye aye, Cap'n!
Can't rightly say no to you now, can I? We lost a lot o' good people back in Carteneau. Let's send 'em all off with a bloody great bang!
I will join you, on one condition: that in your reminiscence of trauma past, you do not make a shameful spectacle of yourself. Pray do not force me to restrain you...again.
I-I never forced ye to do nothin'! Ye'll keep yer 'ands off me if ye want to keep 'em, ye randy bastard!
Quite the fragile flower, isn't she? Well, then, I bid you adieu. My ships will not ready themselves.
My hearty congratulations to both of you. It was my honor to play a supporting part, but it was your passion for the Rising that swayed them.
Aaand...breathe! Gods, I was so nervous I could 'ardly speak! Thanks so much fer chippin' in when ye did.
Could've never've got 'em on our side without ye. Right, then─time to put the finishin' touches to this plan o' mine! It's goin' to be wonderful, I just know it!
Oh, an' about yer reward─I've given it to the minstrel. Ye can grab it from 'im. To new beginnin's, lasslad, an' may the Navigator's breath ever fill yer sails!
You did a great service, my friend, both for Lady Ayoyo and for all those who love the Rising─myself included. For that, I shall be ever grateful.
I expect it shall be still some hours before preparations for the grand finale are complete. Mayhap we could wait together?
While we wait, would you care to hear a verse that has lately come to me? It is a song of celebration─of encouragement, for all those who sail for unknown shores. Pray, lend me your ears...
Greetings, Warrior of Light.
This is a world that exists outside your reality. Could it be a dream? A flight of fancy conjured by your weary mind? Perhaps...or perhaps not.
'Tis a pleasure to make your acquaintance. My name is Naoki Yoshida, and I have beckoned you here that I might express my gratitude.
'Tis a pleasure to meet you again. As I have in the past, I have beckoned you here that I might express my gratitude.
The road we have walked has been long and winding, full of perils and pitfalls, but we have enjoyed every step in your company. We hope that you feel the same about this last, great leap.
With every adventure we undertake, the longer the legacy we leave behind us. Yet a lengthy history need not mean a foreshortened future. Many adventures yet await.
We shall continue to chart a course into the great unknown─one that takes in all the diverse wonders this wide world has to offer─that your legacy might grow ever greater.
To be certain, it would be a less trying task to sleepwalk ever onward down the same, well-furrowed path, Yet to venture down paths untrodden, believing in the bright and glorious future that lies beyond them, is by far the more rewarding.
This is the gift that we wish to deliver unto you: the gift of adventure.
And we pray, with all our hearts, that you will continue to walk with us.
We thank you for joining us on this journey, heretofore and hereafter.
...Now, the time has come for this vision to end; time for your eyes to open from this waking dream.
One cannot know what fills the hearts and minds of those who look to the sky this Rising night. Perhaps you and I will see very different images in those explosions of light and color.
But one thing I know for certain─that right here, right now, we look to the same sky.
And though the paths that lay ahead of us may lead in very different directions, sometime, someplace, they shall cross again.
'Tis almost time for the display to begin. The consummation not only of our labors, but of the thoughts and prayers of the people of this fair city. A salute for the departed, and for those who set sail into unknown waters.
Many adventures yet await you, my friend. May the Navigator's breath ever fill your sails.
From eastern sea to eastern sky, the sacred sun ascends,And voices stir: of wind, of waves, of ropes, of sails, of friends,♪Who like the golden light of dawn that streams across the sea,Set sunlit sail for foreign lands, may fortune follow thee.♪
Her journey done, so sinks the sun below the western waves,And mem'ries stir: of friends of yore, asleep in wat'ry graves.♪Let not our voices raised in song disturb your endless sleep,But join us in our chorus and you dream among the deep.♪
An excerpt from an ancient mariners' song. A prayer for the safe return of those who sail o'er the far horizon, and for the peace of those who sleep beneath those same, eternal waves.
It concludes with a wish: that the voices of those whose spirits are stirred in anticipation of new adventure reach the ears of those whose adventures ended too soon, that they might be united as one. A fitting sentiment for the Rising, methinks.
And so I offer you my own, heartfelt wish: that even should your adventures carry you beyond the far-flung horizon of this wide world, we should meet once more in a twelvemonth's time, and look up to the same sky...together.
Many and more have come from far afield to enjoy the festive atmosphere of Limsa Lominsa this Rising. Now that your work is done, be sure to bask in it yourself.
