Interested in learning about our gods, you say? Heh, that's what I like to hear! Prick up your ears, then, and listen.
In ancient times, the Manusya and the Mrga─deities who look like men and beasts, respectively─were locked in conflict.
Eventually, seeking the wisdom of the Manusya, the Mrga cast aside Their own heads and took up those of Their foes.
Likewise, the Manusya coveted the might of the Mrga, and so They too resolved to trade heads.
Thus were born new gods possessed of both might and wisdom, and They ushered in an age of harmony between the two factions.
From then on, as a sign of Their esteem for one another, the Manusya have worn animal faces, and the Mrga the limbs of men.
We honor the Manusya and the Mrga by incorporating Their sacred images into works both practical and artistic. Try looking out for them, eh?
There you are. Learned a thing or two about our gods, I trust?
While you were off talking to the others, I remembered something that may be of interest.
If you could let your friends know, I'll go and fetch it from my home at once.
Apologies for the wait. I wished to show you this hanging scroll which depicts three of our most revered deities.
By all means, we should like to see it.
They are Manusya─you heard about Them already, yes? Three sisters.
The center one is the eldest. Cinduruva, a goddess of wisdom. For this, alchemists hold Her in the highest.
To Her right is the middle sister, Sanduruva. As a goddess of wealth, She counts many traders among Her followers.
And on the left is Minduruva, the youngest sibling. She presides over the crafts, and so is beloved by weavers.
Although each is worshipped for different reasons, the sisters are usually portrayed together in these works, which people keep in their homes for good fortune.
In like fashion to the Manusya, the deities of Eorzea preside over myriad aspects of life. And what of the Mrga, if I may ask?
The Mrga hold power over nature. In ages past, They were revered as guardian deities in times of conflict.
If you have occasion to visit our temples and ruins, you'll find Their images there.
Among them is a god who possesses a gaja's head, and He is venerated as the progenitor of the Arkasodara.
And then there are dragons. They occupy a special place in our history.
You worship dragons too?
It's said that an ancestor of the satrap─that's the ruler of Radz-at-Han─forged a covenant with a dragon divinity in ancient times.
This divinity has since acted as the guardian deity of the satrap. Legend holds that, if ever the satrap is in need, his dragon ally will fly to his aid!
Dragon ally...
You claimed to be a terrible storyteller, but nothing could be further from the truth.
The passion you bear for your faith is plain to hear. I am confident that the information you've given us will serve us well in our efforts to deal with the tower.
That is very kind of you to say. Thank you! I will pray for your success.
Right, I believe it's time we sought out Krile's acquaintance.
An alchemist by the name of Nidhana.
According to Krile's notes, we're to find her at a place called the Great Work, further north along the coast.
D-Did you say you're going to see Nidhana!? Oh, how I envy you!
She's brilliant and beautiful, kind and understanding...and did I say she's beautiful?
<sigh> I could stare at her dainty ears and adorable trunk all day... And those eyes! When you meet her, take care you don't drown in them!
The Great Work is situated at a cove to the north. Follow the road north to reach it.
In such manner did we find them... What could have befallen these people?
If there was a battle, there's a conspicuous lack of blood.
What in the world...?
