Aye, I recall a man fittin' that description. Asked to speak with the poor buggers lately come from Wright.
Said he wanted to know the state of things down in the Derelicts. And you can be sure we gave him an earful. Lack of food, medicine, clothin'─there was plenty to tell.
We hunt high and low for whatever we can scavenge, and it's barely enough to fill our bellies. But folk here don't just want to survive, they want to thrive!
When he heard that, he started mumblin' to himself. Somethin' about findin' us work, I think.
Fair play to him, though─not content with havin' his ear chewed about the Derelicts, he asked about the other settlements an' all. After that, I can't really say. Looked like he was headed for Gatetown when I last saw him.
Fair play to him, though─not content with havin' his ear chewed about the Derelicts, he asked about the other settlements an' all. After that, I can't really say. Looked like he was headed for Gatetown when I last saw him.
Ah, there you are. How did you fare? Have you learned anything which might offer a clue as to Master Chai's whereabouts?
Interesting...
He apparently paid a visit to the Queen Bee as well.
They discussed the possibility of granting admission to customers from outside Eulmore, an idea to which the proprietor was surprisingly receptive.
Sounds like he's got big plans for the place. Eulmore, I mean─not the Bee.
Perhaps. But the question remains─where did he go after leaving the city?
All we know for certain is that Master Chai has shown great concern not only for Eulmore, but its surrounding settlements.
It seems logical, then, that having consulted those within the city walls, he would wish to do the same to those without.
Forename, if you would go and make inquiries in Wright, I shall do likewise in Stilltide. Gatetown I leave to you, Kai-Shirr.
Fair enough. Where should we meet when we've finished?
Well...Top Rung would seem to me to be his next most likely destination.
Let us reconvene there. With any luck, one of us will have stumbled upon him by then, but if not, we will be well situated to continue our search.
