Ah, the unmistakable swagger of a well-traveled adventurer. If you are come to pay your respects, be at ease, friend. I am not one to stand on formality.
Truth be told, I would gladly welcome many and more brave souls like yourself. But enough chatter─pray tell me why you have come.
If there is any justice in this world, these charges will receive no serious consideration.
It is beyond inconceivable... Ah, yes. The letter made mention of a pressing matter for which you required assistance. What might that be?
So this Enterprise you speak of was last seen above Coerthas before the Calamity five years ago. I fear it may prove difficult to find any eyewitnesses to these events, for while Ishgard did not participate in the Battle of Carteneau, we were embroiled in our own internal conflicts at the time.
Nevertheless, I will make inquiries on your behalf and share with you my findings in the future.
In the meantime, please enjoy the hospitality of Camp Dragonhead. I will see that you are afforded every courtesy as a guest of House Fortemps.
As you have doubtless realized by now, the High Houses of Ishgard─House Fortemps included─are either unable or unwilling to offer you formal assistance in your search.
However, that does not mean that there are not influential individuals within each house who are sympathetic to your cause.
I shall be sending missives to their various representatives in Ishgard, though I suspect it would be quicker and more efficient if you were make inquiries of your own.
Lady Ninne of mine own House Fortemps, who resides here in Camp Dragonhead, rather enjoys the company of travelers. There is also Cravellin of House Haillenarte, who can be found at Skyfire Locks─though any information you pry from the scribe may prove difficult to parse.
Have you spoken with the chief astrologian of House Durendaire yet? Really? Hm... Perhaps he will be more accommodating once I inform him that you are a friend of House Fortemps.
Do not concern yourself with House Dzemael─I shall contact them myself. Seek the counsel of the three I mentioned, and return to me when finished.
