In the name of House Fortemps, I demand that you lay down your arms!
Ishgardian scum! Today you shall answer for your sins!
By this deed, you do disgrace your line, Lord Haurchefant!
A wyvern!? But there were no reports of Dravanian activity!
You would call upon your allies to save you!? At last, your treachery is laid bare!
This...this will not be forgotten...
This...this will not be forgotten...
This...this will not be forgotten...
This...this will not be forgotten...
It is not our intention to defy the will of the archbishop.
But this trial─like many others, I fear─has been orchestrated by enemies of House Haillenarte. They have used you and your fellows to sow discord, Inquisitor─to set brother against brother, that we may tear ourselves apart.
...The fevered imaginings of a desperate man. What proof have you of this?
By the Fury...a draconian rosary! Then the knight who refused to yield─it was he who summoned the wyvern!
A heretic in the ranks of the Temple Knights. This has grave implications...
Your claims...would appear to have merit, Lord Haurchefant. I shall withdraw my charges against Lord Francel, pending further investigation.
I trust you have not lost sight of that which first brought you to Coerthas, Forename. Pray locate your errant airship...and use it.
Lord Haurchefant, I have not the words to express my gratitude. But why would you risk your reputation to save mine?
Because I know you, boy. You're too loyal to betray Ishgard, and too devout to question your sentence. Had we been any slower, you'd have jumped of your own free will.
I...I would have done whatever it took to redeem House Haillenarte.
Praise Halone it did not come to that. But it profits us little to dwell on what might have been.
Let us quit this place, Forename. Pray visit me at Camp Dragonhead once you have recuperated.
Praise Halone it did not come to that. But it profits us little to dwell on what might have been.
Let us quit this place, Forename. Pray visit me at Camp Dragonhead once you have recuperated.
You look well, Forename. May I say what a pleasure it was to fight alongside such a fearless and skillful warrior.
Were it not for you, Lord Francel would surely have died defending the honor of his house─and I might well have perished at the hands of a heretic and his wyvern.
House Fortemps and House Haillenarte shall never forget your service. Now, let us return to the matter of your missing Enterprise!
The man with knowledge of the Enterprise awaits you outside. I pray his information proves useful to you.
