Something I can do for you?
We've come to bargain! I need one of your special taming saddles to catch a wild alpaca.
A saddle, is it? And how will you be paying for it?
With this basket of fine alpaca wool!
What use does a saddlemaker have for wool? Besides, this would barely cover the cost of a single strap buckle. Offer me something I actually want.
And what might that be?
Mezcal. I like to nurse a cup at day's end while I inspect my finished work. Bring me a jug of quality stuff, and you've got yourself a deal.
This bodes well for us, Third Promise. Such mezcal can be had for only five pel in the thousands column!
Hold on, hold on, did you say “Third Promise”? Then my offer has changed─the saddle is going to cost you a jug of premium mezcal, aged three years at least.
Three years!? That stuff is valued at ten thousand pel or more! Why have you doubled the price!?
Because I must support the man of ambition who'll see my business prosper. Zoraal Ja will go to war, and his cavalry will need saddles. Lots of saddles.
It's nothing personal, Third Promise. But I won't sell you my craft for anything less than my asking price.
Can't say that I blame him. I'm known for championing peace, and peace is unlikely to bring him more customers.
Those of our grandparents' generation remember the dark days when the clans were at war. Many of these Pelu pray for your victory, Wuk Lamat.
The younger ones, though...to them, strife and bloodshed are as children's stories. They think themselves safe from these horrors and take the peace we now enjoy for granted.
Still others are unsatisfied with this quiet prosperity and crave the future the Second Promise envisions. They've become obsessed with innovations like the dirigibles that have made trade swift and easy.
Then you have those like Havli, convinced that the First Promise's plans for conquest will afford them opportunities for great profit.
But what about you, Mablu? Aren't you of the younger generation? At least a year or two younger than me, I'd say.
Oh, I was raised on the old tales. I've memorized the accounts of what it was like when the Yok Huy ruled our village.
That's why I offered to help. I want you to become Dawnservant, to keep our nation from going back to the way it was.
Well, then, I guess I'd better make sure I win the contest!
But the type of mezcal the saddlemaker wants is so very expensive...
Weren't we expecting to need ten thousand pel from the outset? Nothing's changed, we just need to get on with it!
I may not have a head for trade or the stomach for alpacas, but I won't give up with the peace of Tuliyollal on the line!
Then neither will I! We will make you Dawnservant!
Aiming for that ten thousand pel jug right away will only bring us failure and frustration. So let's first try exchanging the wool for anything even a touch more valuable.
The trick is to find someone who needs alpaca wool and is willing to trade at a loss to acquire it. Someone who supports your bid for the throne, for instance.
Of course, the weaver! Bol Noq' was his name, I believe!
He went out of his way to say he agreed with my vision and he was here to buy wool.
I think I remember the direction he was going, but for now, let's head back to that road where we first met him.
As you can see, only the finest leather for my saddles.
You might think catching an alpaca a trivial thing, but we shall see. As I said, there's a reason I chose it for my feat.
Is this where you met the weaver?
This is the spot. After Bol Noq' talked to us, he walked off to the south...
Then he was probably going to Icuvlo's Inn. Most visitors to Wachunpelo end up staying there.
Let's go and check, shall we?
Ah, we meet again... But wait. Weren't you all on your way to Wachunpelo?
I hope he's willing to offer us something wonderful in exchange!
Can I have that basket, Forename?
Thanks! Now let's see if we can turn a profit!
Bol Noq', I'm glad we found you. Are you interested in making a trade?
Third Promise, you...you wish to do business with me? Might I ask what this is all about?
I see. So the goal is to turn that basket of wool into a jug of three-year-old premium mezcal...?
Then allow me to invest in your efforts!
Peace in Tural is what allows me to cross freely into the lands of my suppliers. Naturally, I would prefer that one pledged to preserve that peace win the throne.
Thus do I humbly offer you this wool poncho─a small token that I pray contributes to your victory!
Oh, that's fine craftsmanship! A garment like that would easily fetch five pel...in the hundreds column!
That's very generous, Bol Noq', thank you! I promise I won't let you down!
I have every faith in you, Third Promise. May fortune bless your future dealings.
I can't believe you quintupled your investment with your first deal! We're off to a spectacular start!
Only because Forename remembered our weaver friend. All I did was hand over the wool.
That's not true! The connections you build with people are vital. This is one of the most fundamental precepts of trading─one which you've instinctively mastered!
Y-You think so?
I know so! Now, let's take our five hundred pel poncho and trade it for something even more valuable!
Here, Forename, you take the poncho. If I lost it somehow, Erenville would never let me hear the end of it...
All set? Our next deal is waiting to be found!
All set? Our next deal is waiting to be found!
We turned a hundred pel into five hundred. I know it's only five times more, but it feels like five hundred times more!
Leveraging connections is a sound strategy, but we should also consider supply and demand. An individual in urgent need of a good poncho will offer more than a merchant simply looking to stock his shelves.
That makes sense. But how do we know if someone needs a poncho?
That's the obvious answer, isn't it? We look for a person without a poncho, and hope they're eager to buy ours!
It's a nice, sturdy poncho, but the design is traditional. I don't think fashion is part of its appeal.
So only those people with a practical need would be interested...
Wait, that's the obvious answer, isn't it? We look for a person without a poncho, and hope they're eager to buy ours!
Yes, there you go! We find the demand for our supply!
So, where should we begin our search for prospective buyers?
There are any number of places, but we could do worse than starting right here at the inn. There might be interested travelers.
Hm, who here needs a poncho...? A lot of Mamool Ja hardly wear anything to begin with.
Those are probably Landsguard or sellswords. Mamool Ja who soldier for a living prefer not to wear much above the waist─it hampers their movements.
So even if they have bared shoulders, Mamool Ja carrying arms can be struck off the list.
This one's already fully dressed─an artisan or peddler, perhaps? Come to rest after visiting Wachunpelo, like Bol Noq', would be my guess.
This one's already fully dressed─an artisan or peddler, perhaps? Come to rest after visiting Wachunpelo, like Bol Noq', would be my guess.
This one's already fully dressed─an artisan or peddler, perhaps? Come to rest after visiting Wachunpelo, like Bol Noq', would be my guess.
Let's see. No coat or cloak...but also no weapon? Oh, we might have a winner!
Tell me─who among these gathered travelers do you think might be amenable to a proposal?
So professional fighters like those of the Landsguard would have little interest. Though the same could be said of any Turali who prioritizes ease of movement in their work...
Ho there, friend. You're not a mercenary by trade, right? I was curious about your bold choice of dress...or lack thereof.
