Greetings and salutations. Miss Surname, I presume? Ceana informed me of your adventures in Aleport. Terribly sorry about the misunderstanding. Though, as Professor Lamberteint is fond of saying, “No action taken in the name of science is ever truly wasteful.”
To the matter at hand─corrupted crystals possessing the properties you seek could be found in abundance at the Standing Corses following the Calamity.
Alas, that is no longer the case...and while there is at least one suitable crystal that remains to be found within the Twelveswood, precisely where it is at any given moment is more difficult to say.
Permit me to explain. You are familiar with spriggans, yes? The furry little rascals that are wont to seek out ores and other stones? Well, one such creature with an infamously insatiable appetite has single-handedly devoured every corrupted crystal in the Twelveswood. Fortunately for you, these crystals take an eternity to digest─assuming they can even be digested─and I am reasonably confident that one still resides within his gut.
It's quite fascinating, really. My theory is that this “Giggity” first consumed a corrupted crystal when... <sigh> You couldn't care less about all this, could you?
To the point, then. Giggity seldom makes his presence felt unless there is particularly fine fodder to be had. Therefore, we shall require a lure, and I have precisely the sort he will find impossible to resist.
Simply place this true heart─I shall save the story of the origin of its unusual name for another occasion─outside of the spriggans' lair and wait for the opportune moment to pounce.
As for the method by which you retrieve the crystal from his gut...I shall leave that to your discretion.
Ah! Pray do not sneak up on me like that. I was engrossed in─wait, what is that─<sniff> <sniff>─what is that gods-awful smell?
My word, that is a breathtakingly beautiful crystal. I see my supposition was not mistaken.
Ugh... And I also see you weren't averse to digging through spriggan entrails for your prize.
We owe our furry friend a debt of gratitude, you know. This thick coating of digestive juices is protecting us from the harmful effects of the crystal, just as the warded pot you once used did.
Why so glum, friend? You've finally obtained the corrupted crystal you sought─one overflowing with earth-aspected aether!
Calm down─I jest, I jest! It is comprised of ice-aspected aether, worry not. I suppose that joke was in poor taste, considering your previous two attempts were for naught...
Beg your pardon, Forename─I forgot to return your crystal to you.
Oh, and there was a message for you from Professor Lamberteint. Something about a man named Marques? Apparently the professor misses the intellectual stimulation. Forgive me, I should have written it down.
It occurs to me that I have yet to ask why you needed that crystal. You aren't planning anything nefarious, are you? 'Twould reflect poorly on me and my research if it was used for evil ends...
Ah, well, perhaps it's best I remain ignorant. I didn't become the professor's greatest pupil by filling my head with unnecessary information.
Greetings, madam. Do you wish to proceed to your vessel?
All repairs and modifications have been completed, Forename. Once you bring me that crystal, nothing will stand between us and Garuda.
I'll need to run some tests to be sure, but this looks to be exactly what we need.
Worry not, Forename. I'll see that your hard work doesn't go to waste.
The Enterprise is already more than a common airship. But mark my words: soon it will become something greater, something extraordinary.
This...this is me. This is what I was born to do.
According to my tests, the device is now functioning in perfect harmony with the crystal─meaning we can leave whenever you're ready.
But you must understand: tests can only tell one so much.
Until we approach the Howling Eye─until we attempt to breach the barrier itself...I cannot be sure that this will work.
I think it only fair to tell you that there is a small but statistically significant chance that the crystal could trigger a massive...
Hmmm... Mayhap it is better that we remain positive.
Forename, I want to thank you. For reuniting me with my ship, for trusting in me to develop this plan...for everything. You've helped me to rediscover a part of myself I'd forgotten. I am not the man I once was, and I do not know if I ever shall be...but I do know one thing: this feels right.
...My apologies for the sudden outpouring of sentiment. I would have waited until after the mission, but...well, you understand.
There...she's ready...
Ah, she stirs...
To Coerthas! And an audience with the harpy queen Garuda!
Enterprise...engage!
Phew...
Damn it!
I...I once flew in this airship. And I was not alone.
There were adventurers on board...adventurers like you.
Just how long have I worn these damn goggles?
Ah, yes. I fancied myself a trendsetter in my younger days.
The young prodigy, admired by all...exactly like his father.
Born and raised in Garlemald...
It was only natural that the precocious young student should become an engineer. Had his father not done the same?
Father... When did we stop seeing eye to eye?
When did Meteor become your everything, and your loved ones cease to matter?
You abandoned us all. But he was there for me, Father─there for me when you were not.
Though he proved no better in the end. Gaius was just another man with an all-consuming obsession.
And so I ran─left the Empire behind and came to Eorzea, where I built the Ironworks.
Ah, yes! It was then that I first donned these goggles.
Eorzea opened my eyes. It was home to so many manner of people, each with their own hopes and dreams. People worth saving. And so I fought beside them.
I wanted to prove that my knowledge could serve a nobler purpose.
I wanted to prove that there was another way...
And it all began that day, when I found my new home...
I had forgotten how wonderful it was. The wind in your hair, the endless sky...
That light─it was you, wasn't it?
It's surprising how few people know this, but all pureblood Garleans have a third eye.
Perhaps mine helped me recognize you─or perhaps it was just a lucky guess.
The Enterprise was made for this! To carry Eorzea's protectors into battle!
I am proud to be able to call her my own.
Cid─what exactly do you remember?
Alphinaud, my boy─sorry to have been such a burden.
I remember everything...
My name, my people, and my purpose. Everything.
Come! It would be rude to keep Garuda waiting!
All our efforts...all our travails...all of it was for this.
Make ready, Forename, for the end is nigh─be it hers or our own.
