You are...?
Different! You're different too!
You and me. We're alike. Friends. I want to be─
Wait... Please...wait...
Greetings and salutations! Can you hear me?
Do not be alarmed─I mean you no harm. I wish only to hear your words, share your feelings, and know your thoughts.
May we please be friends?
May we please...be friends!
Ah, I see you found him.
Hythlodaeus... It's been a while. Too long, I think.
Too long indeed for close collaborators. On this blessed occasion, I bring not only myself, but others who long to speak with you.
You are of the Convocation.
Emet-Selch, at your service. Do I have the honor of addressing Hermes, chief overseer of Elpis?
You do. You have traveled far for it.
Given your facility's purpose, its remote location is something of a necessity. Would that I didn't have to rely upon a guide...
You wound me. Have I not ever been an attentive and helpful friend?
But moving along to more agreeable company, this one we chanced to...
...Well, you certainly have her attention. Is she one of yours, Hermes?
Her name is Meteion. It means shooting star.
If I may make an observation, her aether is terribly thin. I fear she might dissipate at any moment.
Nor do I believe you've made a submission to the bureau. I would remember such a concept if you had.
I haven't, as you say. I judged it too early. She's a pet project of mine─still undergoing preliminary testing.
But rest assured that I will attend in person ere long.
Very well. Being an authority on flying life-forms, I appreciate that you are exacting in your work.
I shall look forward to your submission.
If we have finished with the perfunctory chitchat, I would discuss official matters.
By my coming, I trust you already anticipate the subject.
I have an inkling, yes. Please wait at the main building yonder.
I shall join you as soon as I've returned these creatures to their homes.
What's wrong, Hermes?
An ambystoma is missing...
Hm, I may have found it. A creature with the selfsame aether as those there, nestled in the boughs of a tree outside the grounds.
You're saying they can climb? With their sorry excuses for limbs?
The “fashion” has been to imbue aquatic creatures with the power of flight, ever since the Words of Mitron created a sky-swimming fish...
The ambystomas too can fly, if only slightly, and they could conceivably climb a tree. Whether they can come down safely, however... Excuse me.
I'll help too!
And what are we supposed to do with this lot?
May I suggest we split up?
If you would be so good as to assist Hermes, Emet-Selch and I shall keep an eye on these adorable creations in the meantime.
The tenet of the Words of Mitron is to create aquatic life both unique and beneficial. Aquatic.
What would possess them to put this creature in the sky? And is it even aquatic to begin with...?
The ambystoma was submitted to the bureau not long ago, and I'm pleased to see it has found its way here.
We'll make sure these little ones don't wander off like their adventurous fellow. Go on and lend Hermes a hand.
Hermes! Are you...all right?
Hermes! Are you...all right?
Hermes! Are you...all right?
The ambystoma. Hermes saw it high up the tree.
He climbed up to get it. But it jumped on him, and he slipped...
<grunt> No, no, I'm fine, if a little embarrassed...
<grunt> Yes, rest assured this is nothing new to me. I've ended up in far more compromising positions in the course of my work.
Now, for your own safety, please stand back...
Ugh...
Hermes! Are you all right?
Quite all right, yes... My apologies for making you worry, Meteion.
Both you and...er...
Forename Surname, you are called? An intriguing name, somehow reminiscent of a new creation...
Thank you for coming after me.
As for you, little one, you must be more careful.
You may be able to fly, but it doesn't mean you cannot fall and hurt yourself.
...
Oh no, I had forgotten all about its fellows!
Truly? What a relief... I must thank Emet-Selch and Hythlodaeus when I return to them. But first, with the distractions out of the way...
As chief overseer of Elpis, permit me to welcome you to our facility. I hope you will enjoy your time here.
As chief overseer of Elpis, permit me to welcome you to our facility. I hope you will enjoy your time here.
As chief overseer of Elpis, permit me to welcome you to our facility. I hope you will enjoy your time here.
I'm glad they're safe! Hermes and the ambystoma!
Well, we mustn't keep the others waiting. Let us return to Anagnorisis.
Well, we mustn't keep the others waiting. Let us return to Anagnorisis.
Some creations stay outside. Others stay at Ktisis. Like the ambystomas!
'Twas blissfully uneventful in your absence. The little ones were on their best behavior.
No more errant creations to distract us from matters of actual import, I trust.
My apologies for the trouble. Owing to your kind assistance, all the ambystomas are safe and well.
I will presently send them back to their space, if you would go on ahead to the main building.
Upon entering, you will see a table and chairs─a meeting area. We may speak there.
Very well. Take care not to let the creatures slip away again.
Will you be attending as well? If so, you should join the others at the building.
While Emet-Selch has been accommodating thus far, he is the one who has business with Hermes. If you wish to attend, you will have to ask his permission.
This appears to be the place.
And here is where we part ways.
We will be discussing highly sensitive affairs. Only a select few may be privy to such knowledge, and that does not include someone who cannot or will not divulge their origins.
What? Will I have to remove you by force?
Yes, I'm sure your business with Hermes is quite pressing. You may speak with him to your heart's content—after ours is concluded.
Let's hear them, then. These reasons of yours. Who knows─if I deem your mysterious cause worthy, I may even be inclined to offer my assistance.
I do not object to her attendance.
Hermes... This is highly irregular.
Perhaps, but I believe she can be trusted. Meteion would not have taken to her so quickly otherwise.
Moreover...the presence of a third party may help me to maintain composure.
As you wish, then.
Behave yourself, do you hear?
So, it's finally happened, then.
Aye. Fandaniel has declared his intention to step down, and named you as his preferred successor.
In recognition of your knowledge and your works, the Convocation is giving the recommendation due consideration.
As one who does not know you personally, I am to use my impartial eye to take your measure.
And above all else, to ascertain your disposition towards the invitation.
I understand that you and Fandaniel are close. He himself was once chief overseer of Elpis, after all.
I should not be surprised if you knew before anyone else that he wished to relinquish his office.
I did... He told me that, when he fulfilled his purpose, he wished to pass the torch to me.
A torch you seem none too pleased to accept. Are you so averse to serving on the Convocation?
No, it's not that...
For a humble researcher like myself to even be considered...is an honor beyond words.
No, what troubles me─what I struggle to come to terms with─is the very fact that Fandaniel is stepping down.
Does this not mean that he will return to the star?
Of his own volition, yes. Like so many others have before him.
Return to the star? Does that mean...die?
Well now, that's not a word I hear often... Is that what you say here in Elpis?
Mankind is the life of Etheirys. Each of us a drop of blood flowing through its veins, bearing sustenance.
In our finite time upon it, 'tis our duty to make it a better place, that all who call it home now and in future may abide in happiness.
To that end, we have dedicated ourselves to the pursuit of enlightened creation. And by our efforts did we transform this once-untamed wilderness into the peaceful paradise you enjoy today.
To return to the star whence we came is a privilege afforded to we who have so loved and nurtured it.
A choice embraced by those who have lived their lives to the fullest, in service to our world.
And when they depart upon this journey, it is beautiful. Always.
The Fourteen are no exception. 'Tis believed no occasion is more felicitous than the fulfillment of one's duty.
Our office becomes our lives, and to retire is to return. Or so the majority of us hold. Some few have elected to eschew custom.
Mayhap you feel Fandaniel's deeds do not warrant his return.
Yet you should know his accomplishments as well as any. During his time, he conceived of countless outstanding concepts.
And channeling the wealth of experience he attained here in Elpis, he brought forth many new specimens.
I know of all this, I do...
It's just...I cannot fathom why someone so great and wise, who could still do so much good, would want to end it all...
Oh no, I've made her upset...
Forgive me─I know I requested your presence. Might I trouble you to take Meteion outside? A change of scenery would do her good.
Forgive me. I will make it up to you, I promise.
Most would jump at the chance to serve in the Convocation. And yet...
Don't mind us, my friend. Please tend to Meteion.
I'm sorry, Forename... I didn't want─ Didn't mean─ <sigh>
...A walk. Perhaps we can go for a walk?
Hermes gets sad. When he thinks about death.
When others are sad, I'm sad too. That's how I am. How he made me.
But don't worry. I'm fine now.
So...why did you come here?
You want to learn about Elpis and Hermes? Ooh, ooh, teach you! I can teach you!
We could take turns! I tell you something...then you tell me something!
It will be! It will be!
Then it's settled!
Awww... I won't be a bother. So please, Forename. Please!
Hehe, you won't regret it! I'll teach you lots and lots of things!
Um, where to start... Ah, yes! Let's talk to Memnon. He should be near the aetheryte.
I'm not good at explaining, but Memnon is. So I'll have him explain instead.
Let's go and talk to Memnon. He should be near the aetheryte.
Oh, are you busy? Then I'll wait at the building.
Ah, you're back! Let's go, let's go!
Ah, the aetheryte. Anyone can use it to teleport anywhere!
Well, maybe not anywhere. Not to the ground or other isles.
For that, you need teleporters. Oh, and permission!
Let's go and talk to Memnon. He should be near the aetheryte.
