By decree of the Forum, the Scions of the Seventh Dawn are permitted to enter the Central Circuit.
This is it... The Central Circuit!
Please tell me we're almost there... Or is there another underground level we have to reach? The Even-more-central Circuit, perhaps?
The farther down we travel, the more expansive the sky above becomes, artificial though it is.
Would that the heavens elsewhere could be so idyllic...
We might finally have the chance to commune directly with Hydaelyn...provided we somehow manage to succeed where Sharlayan's finest engineers have failed. Still, it won't hurt to have a look!
The sooner we can get a look at this aetherburner of theirs, the sooner we can start working out how to improve it!
I have no idea what makes Alphinaud so confident we can solve this problem of theirs. Relentless optimism, I presume. A not-unwelcome trait in a youth...but less so in a gambler. Aye─let us resolve never to let him set foot in the Gold Saucer.
I imagine the secrets kept here would be of great benefit to mine own research, but I will refrain from indulging my curiosity for the time being.
The temperate environment here is not unlike that of Bestways Burrow, though the diverse vegetation doth produce a far more complex bouquet of aromas. A welcome difference indeed, for I have grown weary of the scent of carrots...
The aetherburner is being constructed not far from here.
Overseeing the work is Kokkol Dankkol, after whom the forge is named.
Once the necessary introductions have been made, I shall leave you with him to discuss the particulars. This way.
For a closely guarded secret, you can see practically everything from outside, even with the magical barrier surrounding it...
I was expecting the Skysteel Manufactory, but instead I find the village smithy...
While many of the facilities within the Central Circuit seem to be visible from the upper levels, the more secretive work must be carried out behind closed doors.
Surely the Forum hath already petitioned the aid of the Loporrits, given their familiarity with such technologies...
This is the man we seek. Do try not to startle him...
Is he...talking to himself?
He looks lost in thought, although it seems he's hit something of a stumbling block...
He hasn't even realized we're here... Or perhaps he has realized, but just doesn't care.
Perhaps you'd like to break the ice?
