Ah... You are come sooner than expected.
So. My blade or my head. Which would you have of me?
The people of Yanxia remain loyal to Doma. I have seen the fire in their eyes─they are ready to rise up and fight.
The time is ripe, my lord.Return with us, blade in hand, and lead Doma to freedom.
Naught less than liberty will suffice, then? A pity. It will prove far more difficult to deliver than my head.
But if my people wish to pursue an impossible dream, then who am I to deny them?
Yugiri! Gosetsu! And...uh...?
The Scions of the Seventh Dawn, my lord─good and true friends who opened their hearts and homes to us when we fled to Eorzea.
Far across the sea they have journeyed to stand with us in the fight for Doman liberation─to oppose the Empire, as they have in the West, where they are lauded as heroes for their many deeds─
Say no more, Yugiri. Say no more.
I observed how you helped Cirina, to whom I am deeply indebted. For that, and for the aid you provided my people, you have my deepest gratitude.
There is no doubting your strength, nor your character.It would be my honor to fight by your side.
So. What of Doma? Arise, my friends, and tell me of our home.
I have made my decision. Yugiri, I bid you return to Yanxia and take charge of our forces in preparation for my homecoming. As for our esteemed guests, I would ask that you remain here with me. I sense you will be a great help in the coming days.
Your will is my command, my lord, but...how much longer do you intend to stay?
Oh, only until I have won the contest. I mean to return at the head of a Xaela army.
You mean to participate in the Naadam?
Have you a better idea? Consider how soundly we were defeated before. The imperials may have since grown weaker, but we are weaker still.
'Twould be folly to challenge them without first supplementing our forces.So yes, I intend to win the Naadam and enlist the aid of every able-bodiedXaela I can!
Furthermore, by championing the Mol in the contest, I can at last repay their kindness. Lest you forget, they saved me from certain death─and a man who suffers such debts to go unpaid is without honor and unfit to lead.
Hah hah hah! Just so, just so.
Our lord has spoken, Yugiri. But take heart─I shall keep him safe...and should it come to it, bring him back by force.
This is no laughing matter, Gosetsu. But if these are my orders... Very well.
Once more I place my faith in you. Pray look after them both.
Looks like it's up to us, then... Though it does seem a bit risky. Isn't Hien meant to be the next king of Doma or something?
So they say...though, in truth, I am but a pale reflection of my late father. All the more reason to entreat your assistance.
For ours is an impossible dream─to set in motion a revolution that will rattle the very firmament, and shake off the yoke of the most powerful empire in the world!
Forename Surname, was it? Once again, allow me to thank you for your many deeds in service to Doma.
For twenty-five years did my father rule in name only. My rule─if one would deign to call it that─has been naught in comparison.
That changes now. We have a purpose and a plan, and after we take to the battlefield together, we will have victory as well.
But you are a practical woman. I can tell. Disinclined to trust in words when actions speak truer. I can relate...
So─you too have heard of the Naadam.
“The great battle for supremacy of the Steppe.” I learned of it during my stay with the Mol.
To my knowledge no foreigners have ever participated, much less triumphed in a Naadam. But, lack of precedent notwithstanding, I should think we would have good standing to bid them march with us to Doma─should we win.
Will they even permit us to fight, my lord? We belong to no tribe of the Steppe.
We are not without options, given what Cirina has told me.
You see, in accordance with the gods' wishes, her people shall participate in the coming Naadam...
...And when they take the field, I mean for us to fight alongside them as fellow warriors of the Mol.
But we need not discuss this at length here. Come, let us head north to Mol Iloh, where Cirina and her people have made camp for this season.
My friends, I give you Mol Iloh!
The khatun of the tribe, Temulun, resides in the largest yurt. We should go and make our introductions.
