This is quite the gathering. To what do we owe the pleasure...?
There is much about the voidgate that I cannot even begin to explain. I must convince Vrtra to share everything he knows...
While I am loath to keep Krile waiting much longer, I cannot bring myself to leave before hearing more of Vrtra's tale...
Vrtra speaks as if Azdaja is a lost cause. But I wager he feels differently in his heart of hearts.
'Twas a most enjoyable expedition, for which I am grateful. As for mine evaluation, I shall impress upon the Loporrits that a treasure vault is incomplete without daunting sentinels to test the mettle of any would-be intruders.
I promise we will discuss the voidgate further, but first I must attend to the matter of the vault's sentinels.
As your instruments have no doubt informed you, the Kapikulu has been reduced to so much scrap. Please bring a new one out of storage, and see that it is conveyed to its post along with some few lesser constructs.
Was it tomb robbers? Fiends born of the Tower of Zot? By the Sisters, do not tell me a blasphemy yet roams free!
Why such guilty faces!? Surely it isn't you who are responsible for this... Oh.
Ahem, well...the details aren't important! I shall see it done immediately.
And with that, the vault will soon be secure once more. Now, I believe you had questions?
Quite a few, in fact. But I'd like to begin with the gate itself. It is still functional, yes?
Indeed, which is why I saw it sealed with an alchemically forged lock and warded it with my magicks. Such power must not fall into the wrong hands.
In truth, the primary reason for the vault's construction was to keep the gate hidden from the outside world.
So much effort for such a little door.
That “little door” you speak of leads to an abyss teeming with unspeakable horrors.
That said, in its current state, it would admit only the lowliest of voidsent. And from this side, no man would be able to pass through.
No man? I should think Alphinaud would fit, given a firm enough push.
Physical size is only one consideration. The true restriction hinges upon the aetheric density of the soul in transit.
And yet you succeeded in expanding this diminutive portal and sending your simulacrum to the Thirteenth...
Thanks to my brilliant alchemists. I should have destroyed the anomaly when I found it, but instead, I bade them devise a means to control it.
After much experimentation, they accomplished the impossible. A method was conceived by which my magicks could manipulate the fissure and transform it into a serviceable gate.
But the process has long since been forgotten. Once I had given up searching for Azdaja, there was no need to preserve such esoteric and dangerous knowledge.
Thus has the gate lain dormant, for years uncounted.
Our own passage to the Thirteenth was made relatively simple thanks to the Crystal Tower.
An ancient mechanism channeled the tower's vast stores of energy to open a voidgate─one bound to a covenant made with the Cloud of Darkness.
Once that sovereign entity was beaten back, however, the covenant was broken, and the doorway severed from its connection to the void.
Theoretically, it should be possible to reconnect the gate by forging a new pact with another voidsent...but such deals usually end in betrayal and death.
In any case, we should attempt to gain an understanding of the Bounty gate. Mayhap you could resume the search for your sister...
As I have already explained, I put those futile hopes to rest centuries ago. My place─and my duty─is here now.
Ah, I had meant to ask... What prompted you to search for the vault in the first place?
Well, as you have seen, the “fabulous wealth” from the stories is quite real, if not its rumored origin. But I'm afraid I must assert a prior claim.
As I recall, 'twas you who was chasing tales of undersea ruins.
As you have seen, the “fabulous wealth” from the stories is quite real, if not its rumored origin. But I'm afraid I must assert a prior claim.
I've been adding to that trove for years, little by little. But the time has come to spend it, that I might alleviate my people's suffering.
Then we are of one mind. We had no intention of taking it for ourselves.
Isn't that right, my friend?
Your Excellency. Would you object if I were to conduct a closer examination of the gate? I will make no attempt to open it, of course.
I owe you and yours a debt that can never be repaid. Whatever boon you ask of me, you shall have it.
You are most gracious. I shall take full advantage of your permission.
Would that I could join thee in thy study, but the Loporrits will be anxious to receive my report. I beg my leave of you.
And I must be off to Sharlayan, as well.
Mistress Krile was eager to speak with you about that request, so please come back to the annex as soon as you are able. Farewell for now!
We can discuss my findings once I return. You'll not be rid of me so easily.
I hope you enjoyed the expedition, at least. Otherwise it was a heavy purse to pay for a treasure map leading to a treasure we couldn't keep.
The difficult part in all this will be deciding how best to put these riches to use...
Will you lend me your assistance in these deliberations?
Thank you, Forename.
Then think of your employment as recompense. Serve me as guest advisors, and I will consider the broken constructs paid for in full.
Forename and I are in this together. I will follow her example.
Forename and I are in this together. I will follow her example.
