Oi, milord. Got your package here.
Well done, my good man. And here is your payment...
Oh, this? The bait in question. Easier to have it delivered than to take a detour and pick it up myself. Rather more efficient as well. Time is money!
Now then─you need only place it in the open and slay whatever comes to claim it. I cannot imagine it will take long for something to come hither.
As I said, simply place the bait out in the open and await whatever ferocious beast comes to feast upon it. Slay it, and I will know you to be a warrior brave and true!
As I said, simply place the bait out in the open and await whatever ferocious beast comes to feast upon it. Slay it, and I will know you to be a warrior brave and true!
Fantastic! I knew I was not wrong about you. Come, let us return to the Crystarium at once.
Congratulations on a kill well made, my good woman! I daresay this is the beginning of a beautiful partnership!
Let us commemorate the occasion with a feast! Eat, drink, and be merry!
<grunt> <crunch> <crunch><snort> <slurp> <grunt>Wonderful stuff, isn't it? My compliments to the chef. <belch>
Another helping? No? Are you sure? It really is no bother. Oh, very well...
...I should like to return to our earlier discussion─that of the Virtue I have engaged you to hunt with me.
Andreia is her name, and she roams Norvrandt in the guise of Renda-Rae, fallen Warrior of Light and renowned hunter of eld.
She is a most elusive eater who has been sighted in every corner of the realm. Though her movements are unpredictable, she has often been witnessed pursuing and slaying extraordinarily dangerous beasts.
I can well imagine the question forming in your head─why not leave her be? If anything, is she not aiding local communities after a fashion? Alas, no, for the beasts she slays rise anew, as eaters, which pose even greater threats to the smallfolk.
So you see, this one wretched sin eater is in truth sowing untold chaos by carrying on as she does, unleashing more of her kind on unsuspecting towns and villages all across Norvrandt. Only you and I can stop her.
Huh. What an odd thing to ask. But never mind all that─whether or not they were heroes or villains or whatever a hundred years ago doesn't matter to me.
The simple truth is, Renda-Rae was the greatest hunter who ever lived, and beating her at her own game would be an amazing feat, don't you think?
And regardless of what the Warriors of Light were before they became sin eaters, that's what they are now, so we'd be doing folks a favor by killing one.
Well? What say you, friend? Will you hunt Andreia with me?
So begins our formal partnership! Ahh, I can see it now─you and me in the heat of battle, fighting side by side, the picture of courage and camaraderie! It's going to be grand!
Naturally, it will take us time to study and understand our prey. Eaters can behave in strange and inexplicable ways, particularly powerful ones like Andreia.
I've been doing my best to get inside her head─to think like a hunter─but it is easier said than done. Anyway! As soon as I have determined where we ought to begin our search, I will inform you at once!
...Oh? Is the reward lacking? My apologies. Next time I will see that you receive rather more substantial compensation.
Wait...it's you! It's really you! You actually came─
I mean, uh... Never mind...
Ahem! You're here to hunt Andreia with me, yes? Of course you are! Why else would you be here? And wouldn't you know it, one of my hirelings should be returning with new information any moment now...
Greetings, milord. I am pleased to report that Andreia was recently sighted in Amh Araeng─in the vicinity of Samiel's Backbone, it would seem.
Apparently, there was a right vicious spider what was giving folks trouble, and now that it's been turned, it's about a dozen times worse. They'd be grateful for any assistance.
I see, I see! Well done, my friend. Your payment, as promised.
Why bother going out and about pestering the smallfolk for news when you can employ others to do it for you? The better to devote our precious time to rather more important matters, I say!
And owing to my winning strategy, we may now depart for Amh Araeng and the delightfully named Samiel's Backbone─for in pursuing the spider, we may yet find its maker!
This is certainly the place. I gather those bones once belonged to dear Samiel...but I see no troublesome arachnid.
It being a rather large desert, I had considered hiring a few trackers to hasten our search, but I have yet to spy a place where such individuals might congregate. Pity...
Bah! Nothing for it but to roll up our proverbial sleeves and do the dirty work ourselves! We shall split up and search the sands for this sin eater spider. Whoever finds it first may have the honor of slaying it themselves!
And should we not find it, well...after we both have searched for...a suitable length of time, I say we meet back here. Let the hunt begin!
And should we not find it, well...after we both have searched for...a suitable length of time, I say we meet back here. Let the hunt begin!
And should we not find it, well...after we both have searched for...a suitable length of time, I say we meet back here. Let the hunt begin!
There she is. The scourge of Norvrandt, the devourer of souls─Balam-Quitz!
We bring this mark down, they'll be singing ballads about us till the end of time─never mind the king's bounty! Hells, we could buy ourselves a couple of castles apiece...
Flanking maneuver, as discussed. Wait for my signal, then we'll strike as one!
