Pay my son no mind. He forgets that his responsibilities preclude acts of derring-do.
Hmph. Be that as it may, I cannot help but envy you. Had we been able to call upon heroes of your strength and skill in Doma, things would have been very different.
<sigh> But we cannot change the past. Those who fought─and fell─are forever lost to us.
Lost but not forgotten─Lady Yugiri's kinsmen least of all. They fought fiercest, though they knew full well it was in vain.
She had every right to walk away, yet she chose to stay. Food, shelter, the promise of a better life─all this and more we owe to her. How does one even begin to repay such a debt?
In kind, Father. To she who has given everything, we shall give our all.
Whatever work there is to be done we shall do without question. Ditch digging, bricklaying, it matters not─Revenant's Toll will grow and prosper by our hands.
Hey, Miss Forename! Koharu and I want to know why you became an adventurer!
I knew it! That's what I told Koharu, but she didn't believe me.
Glory? Ah, like bringing honor to your family, you mean!? Yes, Father always goes on about that.
Money, eh? Yes, I want money, too. I could do a lot of things if I had some─well, any...
So...you like roses? I think I understand... I mean, they're nice and everything... But don't they grow in lots of places?
It's my turn now! Excuse me, Miss Forename! I've got a question! What's Revenant's Toll like? Is it pretty?
You mean...there are lots of people there who are just as strong as you!? Oh, I can't wait!
So...there are lots of rocks and things? It sounds a bit scary...but you'll be there too, won't you?
Oh, so you live there with your friends! That means you'll always be there to protect us!
Ha! You can't fool me! No one would ever live that close to a castrum. Liar, liar, breeches on fire!
Enough, Koharu! It's my turn again! Miss Forename─when I'm older, I want to be strong like you. What do I have to do?
Of course! To be a better adventurer, you need to go adventuring!
Like that thing you fought earlier, you mean? Right, right!
Aha! So my father was right! How do you do it, then? Come on, tell me! And don't leave anything out!
Rowena? Is she nice? Are her weapons cheap? I don't have any money at the moment, but my father might. I'll have to ask him.
All right, all right─ That's enough questions for Miss Forename.
That's not fair! Why does Yozan get to ask two questions? I want to know about adventuring just as much as he does...
Just one more─please! Do you think I could be an adventurer like you one day?
Really!? Then I will! Thanks for the advice, Miss Forename. I won't forget it!
I'm going to be an adventurer too!
When we get to Revenant's Toll, let's make an Adventurers' Guild for Domans!
We'll protect our friends and punish the wicked─just like Miss Forename and Lady Yugiri!
Yeah! Just like Miss Forename and Lady Yugiri!
We can talk more about it in the carriage on the way. Will you be joining us?
Ah, Forename. I take it the first group has arrived? Excellent.
Hm? Is there aught else? No, no. I have matters well in hand here. You and Lady Yugiri should travel to Revenant's Toll forthwith.
It is past time Lady Yugiri met with the guild representatives in Revenant's Toll.
Since I do not foresee any further matters arising here in Thanalan which might require your personal attention, I would instead have you serve as an escort to the Doman delegation for the duration of the journey.
Speak first with Slafborn upon your arrival. He is the one with whom the Domans will be working most closely, I should think.
Afterwards, introduce Lady Yugiri to Minfilia and the guild emissary. If both meetings go well, the resulting ties should stand the Domans in good stead for that which is to come. Safe travels, Forename.
And this must be the esteemed Lady Yugiri and her associates. I greet you all as friends, and bid you welcome to the Toll.
I hope you do not find our dearth of fineries off-putting. Poor though we may seem, we have a wealth of spirit─and camaraderie to spare!
You see, race and creed don't enter into it here. We welcome all sorts─provided they are willing to earn their keep, of course.
We are no strangers to hard work, Master Slafborn. You may rest assured that we will carry out your orders with due diligence.
Oh, not for a moment did I doubt your commitment, my lady! Pray understand, I give the same speech to all new arrivals. And you needn't bow your head or call me “Master” either. We are both frontier hands, as far as I'm concerned.
As you wish...Slafborn. May this meeting mark the beginning of a long and fruitful relationship.
Our guests have yet to meet the Antecedent? Seven hells, Forename, why are you wasting time with me!? See them to the Rising Stones!
To whom much is given, much is expected...
Forgive me─I require a moment to compose my thoughts before meeting with your leader. We shall join you at the Rising Stones anon.
'Tis no use...
Our attempts to reach the Students of Baldesion continue to meet with failure. Urianger has explored other avenues of inquiry, but they too have yielded naught.
We will persevere, of course...yet within our hearts, the truth is clear. We are but awaiting confirmation of that which we already know.
How fare the Domans? I am given to understand you were kept quite busy in Vesper Bay.
Mayhap you question the wisdom of aiding refugees when the primal threat remains unresolved.
I should not blame you if you did. Nor would I deny that this matter falls outside our normal purview. Be that as it may, I could not ignore the plight of these refugees─not when it was within our power to help them.
Lady Yugiri is here? Please, show her in. I should very much like to meet her.
We have no objections. Pray do so with our blessing.
Your answer pleases me beyond words, my lady─but are you quite certain? We have no way of knowing how many might answer my summons.
In the event that Revenant's Toll could not accommodate us all, we would need to find an alternative solution.
Should that come to pass, we will find it together.
As ever, it has been a pleasure, Antecedent. Alas, we must take our leave as the first carriages are due to arrive at any moment.
Should you require aught else, pray speak with Slafborn. Lady Yugiri, Forename.
Lhaminn and I will make all the necessary preparations to ensure that our Doman friends feel at home upon their arrival.
Though I must admit that I am still troubled about the matter of the missing crystals...
Y'shtola should be returning anon with a report from afield. Mayhap you could wait here and speak with her upon her arrival?
How goes the fishing? Caught anything slippery?
Aye. Our suspicions were well founded. The Serpent Reavers are indeed the culprits.
The plot thickens...
Has there been any movement in Thanalan?
It has been blessedly quiet. Which is to say the Amalj'aa are being no more or less of a nuisance than usual, summoning Ifrit with such crystals as they have hoarded.
Urianger, too, reports naught out of the ordinary.
Then we have our explanation.
Your explanation for what, pray tell?
For the recent spate of crystal thefts in Thanalan. We naturally assumed that the trail would lead us back to the Amalj'aa.
Yet it did not. It led us across the sea unto Vylbrand.
Vylbrand...?
There have been reports of increased Sahagin activity of late...
Oh gods...they mean to summon Leviathan?
That is the way of it, I fear.
Whilst conducting our investigation on behalf of the Mineral Concern, we came upon evidence implicating the Serpent Reavers.
With the aid of the Maelstrom, I was able to verify our suspicions. 'Tis only a matter of time before Leviathan returns to harrow the seas.
But there is more. One of the Sahagin─an elder, by my judgment─spoke of attaining the “gift and knowledge of eternity.”
<moan>
Such a disturbance in the aether... If I did not know better, I should think this device defective.
And there is the explanation...
