I made it...
I thought we were missing someone. Where have you been?
I feared I was done for when I fell from the boat, yet somehow I made it...
Oh, my arms...I can barely lift them. I-If I could just rest a moment...
You expect us to wait for you? Those who can't keep up will be left behind.
My brother has spoken. March, or be fodder for the beasts.
...But I followed the teachings! Everything I've done─everything I've sacrificed─all has been for the blessed siblings!
Wait! Don't leave me behind... I'm begging you!
I have some small experience with the pressures of leadership─and crumbling beneath its weight, as you well know. If anything good can be said to have come of my failures, I hope it is my capacity to help others avoid similar mistakes.
It doesn't matter if Wuk Lamat's scared of alpacas or gets sick on boats. It doesn't change who she is or what she means to her people.
I'm glad we could take a moment to talk things through. Wuk Lamat seems much happier for it.
It is good to see Wuk Lamat more sure of herself.
Being able to say those things has brought me such relief. It's like a stone has been lifted off my chest, and I can take a full breath at last.
I don't want to encumber myself like that again. I want to be better─will be better. For myself and for my people.
I'm ready to move on!
The Moblin settlement of Earthenshire is not far from here, but be warned: the road we'll be taking is a favored hunting ground for bandits.
With the stairs currently impassable, there'll be fewer travelers, meaning the brigands will be desperate for victims to ambush.
Although considering present company, I suppose my concern is unwarranted.
Bandits on the road? What have Zoraal Ja and the Landsguard been doing!?
Seems it's up to me to restore order to the area!
And off she goes again... For now, we'll head west and aim for the bank of the second river.
Oh, I see─this is the river which feeds the waterfalls above Ok'hanu.
Again and again, I am struck by the majesty of the falls. It is difficult to comprehend the sheer volume of water this natural wonder produces.
The bandits' lair is said to be somewhere near here, but I'd prefer we avoid seeking out trouble.
I felt eyes on us several times as we made our way here, though they soon seemed to lose interest.
Well? Where are these bandits?
Apparently they're not foolish enough to attack a party of this size.
Earthenshire is just a little farther ahead, on the opposite bank of Miyakabek'zoma, but let's remain vigilant all the same.
So this is Earthenshire!
Goodness me! It's like the entire village is made of pottery!
Even as Hanuhanu culture is distinct from the Vanu, Moblin society has developed quite differently to that of their goblin cousins.
Not another claimant in sight. Does that mean we're ahead...or behind?
This is it─the village where the Lay of Pots from the Tuliyollal Saga took place.
Earthenshire... Idyllshire... Might the similarity be a cultural inclination, I wonder.
The settlements themselves couldn't be more different, though. This shire appears custom-built to resemble pots, while the other is a repurposed town.
