Such a perfect specimen...firm, but soft in the right places. Gods, I could just eat them right up! Er, not the produce, mind you─him, the proprietor! I only wish I knew how to tell him the way I feel...
Such a perfect specimen...firm, but soft in the right places. Gods, I could just eat them right up! Er, not the produce, mind you─him, the proprietor! I only wish I knew how to tell him the way I feel...
That is an adorable pose...but why show it to me?
You meant to encourage me? That is very kind of you, but I'm afraid I find the prospect of confession daunting... <gasp> Though, I could ask him his professional opinion on which vegetables are most suited to be cut into heart shapes!
A completely natural question considering the spirit of Valentione's Day, yes? Truth be told, I've had my eye on him for some time now. I simply didn't know how to approach. But, thanks to your...unique motivation, I've finally found the inspiration I needed!
Though it occurs to me, how did the heart become associated with Valentione's Day in the first place? I hope to Nophica he doesn't ask me...
Though it occurs to me, how did the heart become associated with Valentione's Day in the first place? I hope to Nophica he doesn't ask me...
How did the heart become the symbol of Valentione's Day?
People can't seem to get enough of the love heart!
You're back! Seeing as my sister has yet to return, might I ask you and Emilie to recount how you fared in the meantime?
Well, I found the pose to be eye-catching if nothing else. Perhaps even embarrassingly so...even though it was I who invented it. Regardless, I am proud to say folk were practically lining up to see it!
What about you, Forename?
I see... Whilst I'm glad to hear others were spurred to action, it saddens me slightly that some do not know the origins of Valentione's Day's symbol─the heart.
Which makes me wonder: are you two aware of how it came to be associated with Valentione's Day?
Then allow me to teach you! It all began with─
Then allow me to teach you! It all began with─
Indeed. But that only scratches the surface─allow me to elaborate. It all began with─
Ugh...
Lisette!? Heavens, your face is white as a sheet! What's wrong?
Hortefense...I...I saw him speaking with a-a woman in the Carline Canopy... They were alone together, speaking intimately...
You don't suppose it was... Oh gods, you don't suppose it was a tryst, do you!?
Absolutely not! You know Hortefense would never be unfaithful to you! Nay, purge the very thought from your mind!
I know, but...when I saw him and that woman whispering to each other like they were in their own little world, my heart stopped. Before I knew it, I was running from the sight of them as fast as my legs would take me.
“Love is the fruit born of bravery!” Have you forgotten these words, Lisette?
They are our words, passed down by our ancestor, Countess Arabelle de Valentione.
She summoned the courage to pursue love through all manner of hardship.
And she was not merely a countess, but also a warrior true. Naught symbolizes what she fought for more than her crimson shield, forged in the shape of a heart. The symbol is a source of courage─remember that!
Thank you, Astrid. You are right. Countess Arabelle would be mortified to see her progeny act with such cowardice. I must honor her legacy. I...I am ready. Hortefense! If he intends to elope with another woman and live to tell the tale, he has another think coming!
Ahem. I am clueless as to the nature of Hortefense's connection with this mystery woman, but I daresay Lisette needs friends by her side. Might I prevail upon you both to join her?
But of course! Leave it to us!
You have my gratitude. I place her in your capable hands!
We'd better hurry. She said Hortefense and this unknown woman were in the Carline Canopy. I'm sure that's where she's headed!
I know that whatever comes, you'll be there for Lisette! Now please, head to the Carline Canopy with all haste!
There you are! The situation looks rather tense...
