He has tired himself with too many words.
I doubt not that he will make a full recovery, but he must be allowed some few days of quiet.
I too must see my path to its end. Sleep well, my friend.
Following the battle with Nidhogg on the Steps of Faith, Ser Aymeric called an assembly that he might make his final proclamation as acting head of state.
'Twas there, with one decree, that the thousand-year rule of the archbishops was ended, paving the way for a new republic.
The governance of Ishgard would now be placed in the hands of high- and lowborn alike, their ranks represented by the newly founded House of Lords and House of Commons.
Church was separated from state. The foundation for change had been carefully laid, and the reforms proposed by Ishgard's new government passed into law without incident.
His duty done, Aymeric de Borel gladly stepped down from the archbishop's dais... only to be raised unto the highest seat in the House of Lords.
Though he strove at first to refuse this honor, the unexpectedly strident voice of the Count de Durendaire left him little choice but to accept...
And so it was that the winds of gentle revolution came to stir.
Prominent among the many honored guests at Ser Aymeric's investiture were the ambassadors of dragonkind, a fitting symbol of Ishgard's newfound peace.
The people looked on in awe as he soared through the heavens on dragonback, and by their cheers did they hail him an Azure Dragoon for a new age.
Thus were the notes of the Dragonsong rewritten, the din of war giving way to a rising litany of peace and hope.
Thus were the notes of the Dragonsong rewritten, the din of war giving way to a rising litany of peace and hope.
I was gazing out at the Sea of Clouds, in an all too rare moment of idleness, when I chanced to behold a certain hero wending her way towards the city on dragonback. Welcome home, Forename.
Nay, 'twas no grave matter that moved me to greet you in person. Between you and me, I merely sought respite from the pressures of office... No sooner do I surrender my role as temporary head of state than I am burdened with a position of more permanent responsibility!
I fancy that it echoes in some small measure the way you must feel when your improbable feats of heroism are rewarded with still more impossible challenges...
The myth which guided our society for generations lies in tatters─am I then to be scorned for building upon the system of nobility that I once sought to tear down? And what strange jest is this that places me at its pinnacle? An archbishop's bastard at the head of the House of Lords...
...Ah, but these questions are for me to answer.
It is not in man's nature to change overnight. This I learned through painful experience. And it was this hard lesson which convinced me to take the path which we now follow. Even as we rebuild the bridge between man and dragon, so must we reimagine Ishgard─one carefully placed stone at a time.
We must remember that it is not for us that we lay this groundwork, but for the men and women that our children will become. May their towers rise proudly from the fundament of our legacy.
...I hear word from Captain Whitecape that Estinien has vanished from his sickroom. His willfulness survives undiminished.
Should you ever happen upon our unmannerly friend on your travels, pray assure him that I shall keep Ishgard safe until he deigns to come home.
Thank you, Forename. And please, convey my warmest regards to Master Alphinaud.
You spoke with Ser Aymeric? I do not envy him his new position.
Ishgard has chosen a new road, but one littered with the detritus of a thousand years of broken faith.
Yet though her people may stumble from time to time, I know of none better than Ser Aymeric to lead the march of progress.
As for us, there remains the small matter of ushering in a new dawn in the shadow of inscrutable Ascian machinations and a seemingly endless procession of primals... But we too must walk our chosen path─no matter how treacherous the footing!
Thank you, Blanhaerz. Nay, you need not remain there. We shall rendezvous at the usual place.
All is proceeding as expected, then?
Aye, there is naught to concern us. Aside from one overly curious mouse...
This way!
Him again...
It is of no moment. They will play their part, and we will play ours...
It is of no moment. They will play their part, and we will play ours...
It is of no moment. They will play their part, and we will play ours...
Mistress Surname, Mistress Surname! You are come at a most excellent time.
An invitation from a truly preeminent personage was delivered to the manor but a short while ago. Would that you had been present to receive it, but in any event...
Ser Aymeric de Borel, lord speaker of the House of Lords, lord commander of the Temple Knights, and viscount of House Borel, cordially invites Mistress Surname to dine with him at his estate.
You seem surprised. The messenger assured me that his lord had broached the subject with you at an earlier date─when the arrangements for the peace conference were still being finalized...
Of course, the intervening moons afforded little opportunity for leisure. But with the happy advent of peace, 'tis plain the lord commander sees no further cause to delay. What say you?
Indeed, who would not! You will forgive me if I seem envious. Ahem!
I shall send word of your acceptance to Borel Manor at once. When you are ready, pray report to the Astrologicum. They will have someone escort you the rest of the way.
Y-You would ask me!? Well, I...I am sure that as a personal friend of Ser Aymeric, you are at liberty to wear whatever you deem appropriate. That said...
“When in doubt, a man of note could do far worse than an alpine coat!”
...At least, that is what Lord Emmanellain has been heard to say. I-I assume the same holds true for ladies. Ahem. When you are ready, pray report to the Astrologicum. A man of House Borel shall be waiting near there to escort you the rest of the way.
You─ You would rather not? Well...that is a great shame. The messenger went out of his way to express how very much his lord was looking forward to the occasion...
Forgive me, but might I trouble you to reconsider, if only as a courtesy to your friend, Ser Aymeric? At the very least, 'twill be an opportunity to sample the finest in Ishgardian cuisine. Should you choose to heed my counsel, a man of House Borel will be waiting for you near the Astrologicum.
