...Forename, am I right? I doubt you remember me, but I'll never forget you─saved my life in Little Ala Mhigo, you did.
Wilred and the rest of us had got it into our heads that if we had enough crystals, we could summon Rhalgr like the Amalj'aa summoned their god. Thankfully, you put a stop to it.
Ever hear about what happened to Wilred? Joined the Braves when they came calling, only to turn up dead one day. Never found out how or why, but I reckon it doesn't matter. Dead's dead, after all.
But at least he died doing what he thought was right. And maybe that's the best folks like us can hope for, eh? Not that I'm in any hurry, mind!
You've had a word with the men I mentioned, then?
As I'm sure you noticed, they've another thing in common aside from tragedy: you've touched each of their lives in one way or another. But that's not the reason I wanted you to speak with them.
A man who's lived in Gyr Abania his entire life, who bore witness to the realities of the occupation for twenty unbroken years...
A man who fled Ala Mhigo in search of a new life, who swore to serve another nation, only for fate to conspire to send him back here...
A youth born on foreign soil, who never knew his parents' homeland, yet nevertheless felt kinship with our cause...
Three men, three stories, three reasons. Yet all belong to the Resistance. In growing larger, we've grown more diverse, and while there is good in that, there's also the potential for strife and discord.
It'd take a special sort to lead such men to Ala Mhigo, don't you think?
For now, aye, but not forever. And, to be frank, I don't always know what to say to the ones who left, not to mention they youths.
Nay, the Resistance needs a leader with a wider view. Someone who's not lived their whole life in Gyr Abania; who's known death and hardship but not been ground down by them.
Aye. As you may have guessed, I've been thinking of asking Lyse. But it'll be her decision in the end.
I see we're of one mind. She'll have to make the decision for herself, of course.
You've traveled with her. Been by her side when she's had to make hard choices. You've seen her at her worst and her best. If you think she's got it in her, then she does.
Look after her, Forename. She's our future, and my hope.
Hah, now wouldn't that be a sight! The Slayer of Gods and Savior of Ishgard leading the Resistance into battle. You're not short of relevant combat experience, I'll give you that!
Being serious, though...I've been thinking about asking Lyse to be my successor. She's young and worldy, strong and kind. A bit daft at times, but not so much that it worries me—especially given what I've seen of her since she returned.
Look after her, Forename. She's our future, and my hope.
I trust I needn't say that this conversation is just between you and me?
Good girl. Right, then─we'd best head to Castellum Corvi. Or what remains of it, rather.
We'll lead the way while the other units launch their own separate attacks. Remember that we need to hold out until M'naago sees to the flag.
Got your gear in order? Any moment now...
It's begun, then.
Good. It's the waiting that drives me mad. Standing around, knowing what's to come. I'll never get used to it.
Calm down, Naago. You're making her nervous.
We've come this far, haven't we? We just need to make it the rest of the way!
Right!
Looks like the bastards went for the bait. The bridge is ours for the taking!
Now remember, M'naago: I want you to make for the tower as soon as you see an opening and get that flag flying. We'll see to the fighting.
I won't let you down, sir!
Come, then! Rhalgr's star shall burn bright this day!
