Brothers and sisters... Twenty years ago, Ala Mhigo, our home, was claimed by the Garlean Empire.
In our haste to overthrow the King of Ruin, we turned a blind eye to our foes in the north. With our glorious revolution, we but laid a path for a new tyrant to succeed the old...and when confronted with our failure, we fled.
Not a day goes by that I do not think of those we left behind─think of them, and feel ashamed. And I know each and every one of you feels the same.
We abandoned them, our own flesh and blood, to labor till their backs gave in and their breath gave out, building the twisted steel ramparts which now mar our once majestic mountains.
We abandoned them, the brave and true, to fight and die for their country─or worse, to be conscripted and sent off to rob another poor bastard of his home.
We abandoned them, the meek and powerless, to bow and scrape when the Garleans pass─to sully themselves that they might live to see another day of misery.
The Black Wolf may be dead, but a new imperial viceroy reigns in Ala Mhigo now. A beast not a fraction as merciful.
You all know the Eorzean Alliance will do naught to oppose him. For all their promises and platitudes, they will not act if there's no profit in it. Only we can free our brothers and sisters from the Empire's tyranny, my friends! Only we have the courage to stand and fight!
They have imprisoned us, they have enslaved us, and they have murdered us─but no more! Blood demands blood, and the Garleans shall pay for every drop they have spilt upon our lands!
This I promise you, for we have a power within us, my friends─a power befitting our pride, our righteousness! Only join us, and we shall grant you the means to unleash it, and together we shall see the Ala Mhigan standard raised over the mountains of Gyr Abania once more!
“A power befitting their pride...” Not at all ominous, that.
Wait. Is that─?
<gasp> What are you two doing here!?
I could ask you the same thing!
Well, well, this is quite the surprise.
If you see what I see, if you feel what I feel, then I bid you join us. And those who cannot fight, fear not! For it is not strength of arms that will win this battle, but strength of heart!
Might I suggest we continue this conversation in more...agreeable surroundings?
Words cannot express how glad I am to see you both alive and well.
And you! Though it was pretty obvious you and Forename would be fine.
The Crystal Braves never had a realistic chance of capturing any of the Scions, divided as they were and distrusted by the better part of Eorzea.
But if you truly believed that─ Forgive me. What exactly have you two been doing all this time?
...Repaying a favor. After the banquet, we had no choice but to flee Ul'dah, and we would not have been able to do so without the aid of some old friends from the Resistance.
That's right. They smuggled us out of the city and sheltered us in Little Ala Mhigo, all at great risk to themselves. Obviously, we couldn't let that go unacknowledged, so we offered to help them out with their operations for a while.
When we learned of the Scions' exoneration─that Lolorito had severed all ties with the Crystal Braves, and that General Raubahn had been reinstated─we resolved to make contact. But having long since discarded our linkpearls as a precautionary measure, our options were rather limited.
To make matters more complicated, we were embroiled in a delicate operation at the time, leaving me with little choice but to entrust a letter to a courier. I gather from your puzzled expressions, however, that you never received it.
To be honest, we thought this might happen. While the Masks are happy to let the refugees spread the word within the community, they're pretty strict about communicating with outsiders. Oh, and we also heard a rumor that the Griffin doesn't want us meddling in his affairs.
The Griffin mistrusts the Scions of the Seventh Dawn?
Curious. It is well known that we are no friends to Garlemald. One would think the man we saw beseeching all and sundry to join his cause would welcome our support.
Ah, I should say that the man you saw was not in fact the Griffin, but an impersonator. And a talented rabble-rouser, to boot. 'Twould not surprise me if he were responsible for the majority of these public appearances.
As you may have gathered, the Griffin is an extremely cautious and distrusting man who has made every effort to conceal his identity. Even when we participated in a raid under his direct command, we were not permitted to approach him.
It's hard to know what to make of it all. The secrecy, the impersonators, the masks...
What!? It's not as if I'm making all of you wear one! And mine only covers half my face. It's completely different!
Anyway, when we heard the Griffin was due to give a speech, we thought it might be a good opportunity to get a better sense of the man behind the─uh, to get a better sense of the man.
And now you have heard the whole of it. But tell me─what prompted you to take an interest in the Griffin?
Summoning!? You're not serious! I can't believe it...
The Resistance would never even entertain such a ridiculous plan, but the Griffin... Well, the man is an enigma. I cannot say with any confidence what he would or would not do.
What I can say, however, is that the speech we heard today was not the first to make reference to a “power” capable of defeating the Empire. The Masks have made many such claims of late. I confess, I had assumed it to be mere bluster, but in the context of the shipments of which you spoke, it is not impossible that they are alluding to a primal.
Whatever it is, we'll find out together─and if anyone tries to stop us, they'll answer to me!
Indeed. That is...assuming you'll have us?
If, as you suspect, the Griffin is indeed plotting to summon a primal, we must needs obtain confirmation while there is yet time to act. To that end, I propose we question his double.
Given his role as the group's de facto mouthpiece, I should not be surprised if he were one of the Griffin's closest associates. And while he may not be aware of the most sensitive details, he can probably tell us the Masks' plans in broad strokes.
Like the man whom he impersonates, however, he is wary of outsiders. He will not expose himself without a suitable incentive.
My plan is as follows: you and Alphinaud will pose as adventurers fallen on hard times, inspired by his words to take up arms for a noble cause.
Yda and I, as members of the Resistance, will recount tales of your past achievements, and testify as to your usefulness in the struggles ahead. With our enthusiastic assurances still ringing in his ears, he will decide to welcome you in person, and we will arrange a meeting.
You will need to look the part that we might maintain the charade─until we have him cornered, at least. Here─this should be enough to purchase suitable garments from Talebot, and to have him rub a respectable amount of dirt on them for good measure. Any questions?
It all seems simple enough, thank you. And with that, Forename, let us be off!
Eh? You want to buy what? I don't know what you're up to, but I want no part of it.
Well, you're the ones with the gil, and seein' as you're friends of Papalymo...
There. Tunic and slops for the both of you, tailored and, er...treated to your tastes. Now, off with you, before someone sees us together.
“Clothes maketh the man,” as they say.
Right, then. I will go and change, and see you at the spot Papalymo marked on our maps.
Well, look at us─a pair of down-at-heel adventurers seeking a chance to recapture past glories. Yes, this should suffice.
And now we play the waiting game...
My thanks, comrades.
You must be the esteemed adventurers of whom I have heard so much. I understand you have taken an interest in our cause.
A great interest, you might say.
Your words have certainly made quite an impression on my friend and I. The Resistance has long─and some would say wisely─avoided open engagements with the Garleans, but you and yours seem confident against the world in arms.
I can only assume you have good reason to be so bold. Why, one might even think you were planning to summon a primal.
Because that would do much to explain the sizable shipment of crystals you recently received from your smuggler friends─whom our Ishgardian allies have since detained, lest you wonder.
I'd like to hear more about the Griffin. The real Griffin. Your performance earlier didn't fool us!
Ah. The famous Scions of the Seventh Dawn. I should have known better than to think I could conceal the truth from you lot.
You are right. I am not the Griffin. But I speak with his voice, and it was at his behest that we procured those crystals.
You are wrong, however, if you think that we procured them to summon a primal.
We used them to reach an accord with the Amalj'aa. In exchange for crystals to summon their god, they will aid us in the fight for Ala Mhigan liberation.
You've got to be joking! Have you gone completely mad!?
When people find out you helped the lizardmen summon Ifrit, they'll turn on the Resistance! Ala Mhigo will never be free!
This isn't a faerie tale, girl. We don't have the luxury to play at being honorable heroes.
It's because the likes of you wouldn't sully your saintly hands that Ala Mhigo's been under the yoke for the past twenty years! But the Griffin won't stand for it, and neither will we! We're ready to do whatever it takes!
What proof do you have of this arrangement with the Amalj'aa?
What, aside from a lack of crystals? None. But the beastmen have a great big pile of the things, if you fancy looking. You might want to hurry, though─it'll not be long before they summon their god.
Search our camp if you don't believe me. We have naught to hide.
If there is a cache to be found, Yda and I will find it.
Then let us be off.
Are you perchance the Warrior of Light?
Aye, I thought so. You should know that a great many who have joined us did so because you saved them─because you showed them that one brave woman can make a difference.
You saved me too, once. Helped a friend over in Quarrymill make some medicine I needed. But that was a lifetime ago...
On behalf of my brothers and sisters, I thank you. You gave us hope where there was none; courage and strength when all was lost. We shall not squander your gift.
I know that look, Yda, and I do not like it. You cannot seriously be contemplating taking up arms with that band of cutthroats?
I... I just...
If the Griffin and his men have their way, it is only a matter of time before the situation in Ala Mhigo comes to a head.
Your homeland's future teeters on a knife-edge, and any reckless action, however small, could have irrevocable consequences.
You mustn't lose sight of that, Yda. When the time comes, we must all make our choices, but we must do so in full possession of the facts. Now let us away─there is work to be done.
Quarrymill, he said? Do you remember...?
Forgive me. You cannot be expected to recall every name and face, and besides, it's not as if it matters.
I have long admired how you live in the present. How you focus on the problems at hand and always keep moving forward.
So let us keep moving forward together, Forename. We must find and secure those crystals─this is no time for looking back.
If we take the Griffin's double at his word, then the crystals are now somewhere within Zahar'ak...ready to be put to use by the Amalj'aa.
We must apprise Alisaie of all we have learned. I will join you both in Little Ala Mhigo after I have changed.
Now that Thancred has finally arrived, mayhap you could share your latest findings?
You mean to tell me that while we were worrying ourselves sick, Yda and Papalymo were here all along? Well, Y'shtola will be relieved. And also angry. Mainly angry, I should think.
As for the crystals, what choice do we have? We cannot very well leave them in the hands of the Amalj'aa.
For all we know, they could be preparing to summon Ifrit even as we speak. We must make for Zahar'ak without delay.
Agreed. If there is naught else to discuss, let us depart at once.
...And so they go forth, in accordance with the Griffin's plan.
The players gather to assume their marks on a stage wreathed in flame... Ere long, the curtain shall rise, and the drama of which I am author, gods forgive me, shall at last be performed.
Naught else remaineth, save to stand at the ready and pray that the chance is seized. For never shall we know its like again.
I confess, I expected a warmer greeting. But we must not jump to conclusions─not until we have braved the Bowl of Embers.
We must be ready to engage the enemy at any moment. If you would make any final preparations, pray do so now. I shall await your signal.
This isn't right. The Amalj'aa would never leave this place so poorly guarded.
Not willingly, no.
Hah hah! Ahhh, the saviors of Eorzea. Slow as ever.
By the Twelve... Will you never learn?
You know, you're right. Mayhap it is time for a change of tack. Killing primals, tormenting beastmen, hastening the birth of a new god...
It's all a bit much, isn't it? And, frankly, we don't have the leisure to do it.
Killing the Warrior of Light, on the other hand─that would soon plunge Eorzea into chaos.
One life for one world. A fair exchange─wouldn't you agree!?
Lest you forget, you've more than one opponent!
Carbuncle, defend me!
I sense you will offer more than mere target practice. Unlike your sister.
Alisaie!
Did...did I not tell you, Alphinaud? I am not the girl I once was.
My brother was always the clever one, while my talents lay elsewhere...
If you would dare to stand against us, to destroy all that we hold dear, then you shall die by my sword!
We've come too far, sacrificed too much to stop now!
You think you are the only ones to have known sorrow!?
No, NO! We will not be denied so easily!
No, NO! We will not be denied so easily!
Is this...the power of the Echo!?
Is this...the power of the Echo!?
Again they rise! Have these warriors no limits!?
No more games!
Godsdammit, I can't break free!
Let's finish this!
It ends, now!
What?
The chains!
You snake. You would betray us as well?
He that holdeth fast unto his convictions shall never count betrayal amongst his crimes, though all the world may call him villain. My path is unchanged; my creed sacrosanct. This I believe with all my heart.
But say, Warrior of Darkness, and speak true─what dost thou believe? That rendering up the souls of thy world in service to the Rejoining will grant it salvation? Nay.
By the Twelve─Urianger!
Mine apologies, Master Alphinaud. That the brightest light might shine, duty did compel me to walk in darkest shade.
You sweet fool. I was almost willing to believe you had turned against us.
I expect a full explanation when this is over. For now, may I assume you have turned your cloak for the last time?
Thou mayest, my lady.
By thy leave.
Even odds, then. No matter. We'll crush the lot of you in one fell swoop!
