Greetings and well met, Mistress Surname.
I have the honor and the privilege to serve as head steward of House Borel─though, admittedly, our staff is somewhat smaller than those of other noble families...being countable on one hand.
Ahem! My lord will be overjoyed to hear that you have accepted his invitation. As you will soon see, we have spared no expense.
I daresay a woman of action such as yourself enjoys nary a moment's respite. Aye, the battlefield beckons even now, I am sure, but for this day, we bid you lay down your burdens and raise a glass to peace and prosperity.
To think the moogles would prove such harsh taskmasters! Forgive me, I did not know you had suffered so in your quest for the horn.
I must say, your spirited accounts always come as a welcome change from the arid reports which fill my days.
Though I have lived in these lands my entire life, to hear you speak of them, there is much and more I have yet to see. Truly, yours was a marvelous journey.
Long and arduous, aye. Not unlike the journey that Ishgard has at last embarked upon─thanks to the efforts of you and yours.
Hah! Well...truth be told, when I think back on the sweeping vistas of the Churning Mists, I do feel some slight pangs of wanderlust...
Alas, much as I would like to accept your invitation, I fear my present duties with the House of Lords demand my undivided attention. Someday, perhaps.
Nor would I presume to imply otherwise. Neither I nor any man alive can truly understand what you have endured, and I cannot say with any confidence that I would have acquitted myself as well under the circumstances─much less grown stronger for it.
By your deeds, you have helped us to lay the foundation for lasting reform.
The formation of the republic is but the beginning, for it is not only our system of governance which must needs change. We the people must learn to let go of our hatreds and rise above our bloody past.
I only pray that I live long enough to see us achieve some measure of success─that I might know the lost did not die in vain.
I can still see you there, on the Steps of Faith, striding fearlessly towards the wyrm... If you could do that, who are we to balk at the challenges ahead?
The question of how best to strengthen ties with the other great nations of Eorzea has been debated at length in the Lords and Commons of late.
As you may imagine, maintaining stability during this period of historic upheaval is our paramount concern. Nevertheless, we are greatly indebted to the Alliance for their support during the grand melee, and it would be remiss of us not to repay their faith in kind.
Of course, we owe you the greatest debt of all, and it is my hope that in extending our support to you and the Scions, we might also express our gratitude to our neighbors─nay, our fellow Eorzeans, whom we pray you will continue to protect.
The Lords and Commons agree on very little, but not a soul in either house begrudges your order this offer of patronage. For all you have done and will do, we thank you.
...May I ask a personal question?
Now that the dust has settled, what will you do? Not as a Scion, I mean, but...what do you want for yourself?
Lord Commander, pray forgive the interruption!
News from House Fortemps?
An urgent message for the Warrior of Light. I was instructed to deliver it without delay.
Master Thancred returned to the manor a short time ago, bearing an injured maiden.
Master Leveilleur and Mistress Tataru are tending to her wounds, but they like not her chances. Respectfully, my lord─they have requested the Warrior of Light's immediate presence.
You must go to them, my friend. And I shall go with you.
For every ending marks a new beginning.
From tragedy and sacrifice we rise to greet a new dawn. As did she.
Only to be drawn unto another battlefield, another cause, as if by fate...
The As—<gasp>
Is that...?
Alisaie, Alphinaud's twin sister.
She ran afoul of the Warriors of Darkness.
I had been tracking them since the ceremony at Falcon's Nest. Little did I know I was not the only one.
Evidently she had learned of their activities and attempted to shadow them on her own. Poorly.
I rescued her in the Twelveswood, and together we fled north. But though I made every effort to cover our tracks, they caught up with us on the Ishgardian border, and in the ensuing struggle, Alisaie took an arrow to the shoulder.'Twas only after we had made good our escape that I realized it was poisoned...
Thank you for coming so quickly. And you, Ser Aymeric.
Think nothing of it. How is she?
We have done all we can for now. Although the immediate danger has passed, the poison yet lingers in her blood...
We came to Eorzea together, hoping to bring salvation to the realm our grandfather gave his life to protect.
But when confronted with the bitter realities of its politics and its petty powermongers, she was driven to anger─and to doubt.
She refused to become embroiled in what she termed Eorzea's “squabbles,” and distanced herself from the Scions.
Though she remained hopeful of a brighter future, she would walk her own path. Would that it had not been so perilous...
For all our differences, she is as dedicated as any Scion to the salvation of Eorzea. But more than that, she is my sister...
To be reunited with her, only to lose her forever... Gods, even to speak the words...
Take heart, Master Alphinaud. She will be attended by our most skilled chirurgeons.
Bear Mistress Leveilleur to the infirmary at once. Apprise Captain Whitecape of the situation, and inform him that she is to be treated as my personal charge.
W-Wait... D-Don't go... Please, come closer...
The Warriors of Darkness are in league with the Ascians... Slaughtering the primals is but the first step in their plan...
They make for Xelphatol to bring about Garuda's summoning... And to kill her...
You must... You must stop them...
I...I shall inform the others at once!
Master Thancred─I would ask that you accompany Mistress Leveilleur to the infirmary. Your knowledge of her injuries may well prove useful in determining her treatment.
Of course.
Surely, surely they won't let her... <sigh> Yes, yes, I know. We must trust in Captain Whitecape and his chirurgeons. Did they not bring Estinien back from the very brink of death?
...I am uncomfortably reminded of how he mocked me for praying at his bedside for days on end.
What say you, my friend? Shall we turn our attention to a matter whose conclusion we yet have the power to influence?
So the Warriors of Darkness and the Ascians are conspiring to bring about Garuda's summoning, that they might put her to the sword...
Then when we first encountered them in Loth ast Gnath...when they were confronting Ravana... Gods, has this been their aim all along?
What do you intend to do, Master Alphinaud?
There is much and more I do not understand, but I know this: a primal summoning cannot be ignored.
Alisaie risked her life to uncover this plot, and we squander her gift at our peril. Forename, will you accompany me to Xelphatol and help me stop the Ixal's ritual?
Given that Ishgard shares a border with the Ixali homeland, we have a vested interest in the outcome of this ritual.
We have been willing to suffer the beastmen's intrusions into Coerthan lands to a point, but the summoning of a primal is an escalation we cannot abide.
You shall have our fastest airship, Master Alphinaud. The mountains of Xelphatol are not easily traversed, and this endeavor demands all haste.
The gesture is most appreciated, Ser Aymeric─but I fear an aerial approach is destined to fail. This is their homeland, after all, and Ixali dirigibles are not to be underestimated.
No, experience tells me the only conceivable approach is by land. I believe it would be wiser to cross into Xelphatol by way of the mountain pass east of Camp Dragonhead.
In that case, I shall send instructions for a contingent of the camp's knights to be placed at your disposal. They will secure you safe passage through the mountains, and escort you thence to Xelphatol.
Though my men are unqualified to confront a primal, they are more than capable of contending with the Ixal.
We should be glad of their assistance, Lord Edmont.
In the event Mistress Alisaie regains consciousness, we will share with you any additional information she may provide. May the Fury watch over and keep you safe.
Then let us be off. We can procure any additional supplies we require in Camp Dragonhead.
Have you everything you require, then? Excellent.
The entrance to the pass is north of Natalan and due east of Camp Dragonhead.
Though it is normally guarded by a score of Ixali warriors, I have been informed that House Fortemps knights have already dispatched them.
The enemy's gate lies open. We need but walk through.
