Wh-What!? What is it!? Is it the Horde!?...By the Fury, what ever possessed you to do that?
I'm awake, I'm awake, worry not. After the shock you just gave me, I doubt I'll sleep for a fortnight!
Ye gods, where did that come from?
Fine, if you insist, I will make an effort to be more alert. But really, I fail to see the point! We're hundreds of malms away from the front lines─which is just the way I like it, thank you very much!
I-Is it an attack!? What should we do!? What should we do!?
...You had me fooled there for a moment, old girl! An amusing jest─albeit a tad cruel. Surely you must realize how unsuited I am to the monotony of mere sentry duty─yet still you tempt me with the promise of excitement!
No, this won't do. This won't do at all. Lady Laniaitte will give me a grand mission as befits my station!
Many thanks, Mistress Surname. Already I can see a change in our sentries' behavior.
Beg your pardon... Lord Emmanellain said what? Hah, well... I have no doubt that Lady Laniaitte will do her utmost to oblige him.
If Lord Emmanellain is going to demand a more dangerous duty, then I expect Lady Laniaitte will want you to accompany him.
Aye, you might as well speak with her sooner rather than later. There's no use avoiding the inevitable.
Mistress Surname! Lord Emmanellain has just informed me that “mere sentry duty” is beneath him. I understand we have you to thank for this epiphany?
Well, there's nothing for it but to give him something more demanding, then. Can I count on you to keep him safe?
Excellent. We are in constant need of fresh water in Camp Cloudtop, as there are no underground sources we can tap with wells. However, there is a unique variety of crystal we have recently discovered which may enable us to obtain water through other means.
These spring crystals can be found in Voor Sian Siran, to the east of here. I would have you and Emmanellain bring one back to us.
You may have to contend with the feral beasts which populate the lakes, not to mention Vanu scouts ranging from their nearby settlement. Of course, that all pales in comparison to keeping the young lord entertained, but you have doubtless grown accustomed to that by now. Good luck, and be safe.
Hm? Lady Laniaitte told you to tell me about my mission once again? If I didn't know any better, I'd swear she's avoiding me! Anyway, what is it?
Finally! It's about time she entrusted me with a mission of real import. Right, then─let's go, let's go!
...You're not making this sound terribly appealing. Still, I shall be glad to have you along. Come along, then!
Again with the silent treatment? Really now, that's just mean. That's mean!
So this is the Voor Sian Siran of legend. And nary a Vanu in sight. How disappointing. I could do with some sport.
I know! Why don't you and I make it a competition? Whoever finds the superior specimen wins!
Honoroit shall judge our entries on size, purity, and, say, aesthetic sensibilities! Let us begin at once!
Honoroit shall judge our entries on size, purity, and, say, aesthetic sensibilities! Let us begin at once!
Honoroit shall judge our entries on size, purity, and, say, aesthetic sensibilities! Let us begin at once!
Ah, Mistress Surname. Have you brought your entry for the contest?
My understanding of such things is...limited, but can this truly be used to draw moisture from air like water from a pump? Fascinating...
Lord Emmanellain has been gone for an awfully long time. Did you perchance see him while you were searching for your crystal? Even he must realize the dangers of wandering too far in such a place...
Mayhap I am worrying about nothing, but...I must ask that you assist me in looking for him, Mistress Surname. We shall find him more quickly if we split up. Pray search the southeastern area of Voor Sian Siran as swiftly as you are able and rendezvous with me in the north. Farewell, and good luck.
Mayhap I am worrying about nothing, but...I must ask that you assist me in looking for him, Mistress Surname. We shall find him more quickly if we split up. Pray search the southeastern area of Voor Sian Siran as swiftly as you are able and rendezvous with me in the north. Farewell, and good luck.
M-Mistress Surname! Lord Emmanellain...Lord Emmanellain has been taken by the Vanu!
They had my lord surrounded─a whole gang of them! Please, you must come quickly!
The Vanu must have taken him to that village, mayhap to present to their chieftain...
I-I will make haste to the Rosehouse and tell Lady Laniaitte what has happened.
Yet... Yet by the time I return with aid, i-it may already be too late... Forgive me for asking, Mistress Surname, but should you spy an opportunity to sneak past the sentries and rescue Lord Emmanellain in my absence, I beg you to take it!
I know he can be a trifle presumptuous...and insensitive...and, well...insufferable─but he doesn't deserve this!
