The caravan, my lord! It's been attacked!
It was Iceheart, my lord!
What!? By the Fury! All our precautions were for naught!?
<sigh> Just when we were starting to make progress...
And to make matters worse, the caravan they spoke of was bound for Revenant's Toll of all places. Honestly, were I so inclined, I should think the gods were conspiring against us.
Happily, however, I am not. I would know more of this attack. Let us speak with Lord Haurchefant and find out what he has learned.
My sincerest apologies for the interruption, my friends, but the situation is such that we must act swiftly.
If you would be so kind as to elaborate...
Iceheart's heretics fell upon the caravan bound for Revenant's Toll as it was passing through Boulder Downs.
'Twas an ambush─swift and ruthless. In an instant, every knight was slain, every crate seized. Then, as quickly as they had appeared, they were gone.
'Twould be an impossible feat without knowledge of the route─knowledge to which only a select few are privy, I presume.
...Quite. We can pursue that avenue of inquiry in due course. It seems to me that examining the scene of the ambush should be our first concern.
The trail is yet warm. We must act swiftly─as Lord Haurchefant said─lest crucial evidence be lost.
You have a knack for discerning hidden truths, Forename. Why don't you go and inspect the ambush site in person?
An excellent idea! Inform my men of your intent upon arrival, and they will gladly share their findings.
Move along, adventurer. There's nothing for─ Eh? Lord Haurchefant bid you speak with us? Then you must be─ Beg your pardon, Scion.
As you can see, they left nary a crate behind. Tipped the wagon for good measure even.
Whole thing's a bit odd, if you ask me. Would've been easier to just steal it─though a damn sight harder to conceal it, I'll allow.
Reckon they came prepared, probably with wagons of their own hidden a way off... Ah, but pay no heed to my ramblings. Absent of proof, 'tis naught but speculation.
Might be as the squire receiving care at the Observatorium could tell you something more factual. That is, if he's awake. Unlike myself, he was there during the attack─not that his presence amounted to much.
