Welcome to the Leveilleur residence. Have you come alone, or should we expect a larger party...?
Ah, Mistress Forename, Mistress Y'shtola, how may I be of service?
We've come to speak with Master Fourchenault. Is he home, by any chance?
Yes, the master is in residence. I shall inform him that he has guests.
Well, well. Ameliance would invite you inside for tea, but I assume this is not a social visit. You have some matter of import to discuss?
Then pray proceed─you have my full attention.
Well, I suppose I should praise you for following the proper protocols this time around...
Scholarch Montichaigne expressed much the same sentiment. I assure you, we'll not attempt to circumvent the Forum's authority again...unless it is absolutely necessary, of course.
...Of course.
You do understand that the restricted archives are restricted for good reason, yes? If no pressing need exists, then why risk the consequences of employing this forbidden knowledge?
For a brother who misses his sister. She was his guardian and his friend─a selfless hero who crossed the rift between worlds to save her homeland from horror and suffering.
But the brother has given up on thoughts of reunion. He spends his efforts elsewhere, watching over a people yet healing from the flames of the Final Days, loyal to his duty while betraying the longing in his heart.
'Tis no vital mission, perhaps, reuniting these siblings. But it feels a worthy cause to pursue, all the same.
As one who feared losing his own loved ones, and spent years in research to prevent it, surely you appreciate how painful such a separation must be.
Reflections are still very much a mystery to us. Offering to share your experiences in the First should constitute a fair exchange for our cooperation.
Do not celebrate just yet. The Forum must still be convinced.
I will add your request to the list of today's deliberations, and deliver the decision to you at the Baldesion Annex.
Please do come again. We are always glad to receive such close companions of the twins.
The matter is out of our hands. All that remains is to return to the annex and await word of the Forum's decision.
So. What did the Forum decide?
To put it bluntly, Master Matoya has burned some bridges here in Sharlayan─and salted the earth for good measure. When it became clear that her student was the petitioner in question, well, no few members voiced their discontent...
Then the chamber was reminded─in no uncertain terms, I might add─of the incredible debt we owe to you and your companions.
That served to silence the grumbles and stiffen a few spines, and it was agreed that allowing you entry to the archives was the least we could do in return.
That is wonderful news. Thank you both for speaking on our behalf.
Yes, well... As I am sure you are aware, this permission was not extended lightly. Forbidden knowledge is to be treated with the utmost caution, and there will be repercussions if it is not.
I wish you well in your endeavor, and bid you good day.
Ever the same, that one...
Uncompromising? Aye, but that very stoicism is exactly what Sharlayan needed to guide it through not one, but two exoduses.
If I were but five years younger, I'd cast aside my lectern and join you on your adventures in a heartbeat...
That went rather well, I think.
As a child, I dreamed up any number of schemes for getting my hands on those forbidden tomes... And now I can simply walk in through the door.
Our focus will be on finding House Daemir's research notes, of course, but the thought of so much knowledge at my disposal has me feeling a little giddy.
I'd like to set out as soon as you're ready.
You'll be heading directly to the archives from here, I presume?
You presume correctly.
Then you'll want to speak with the index page when you arrive. It's been instructed to grant you access to the restricted section.
Excellent. Once again, we thank you for all your help.
Oh, it was my pleasure, believe me. May you find the knowledge you seek!
Shall we?
Come along, Forename. Noumenon and its forbidden wisdom awaits.
Very well, but please do hurry back. I shall await you at the annex.
All set this time? No forgotten chores or errands to call you away? Good─the forbidden tomes await!
