Greetings, Mistress Surname. On behalf of House Fortemps, I bid you welcome to Ishgard.
My lord humbly requests your presence at his residence in the Pillars.
If you all would come with me...
The Warrior of Light and her brave companions, walking the streets of Ishgard at last! What a glorious sight!
I cannot tell you how long I have waited for this day. Allow me to present to you my family home: Fortemps Manor!
I should like nothing more than to show you around, but everyone is gathered to receive you.
Come, my friends! Introductions must be made!
My lord, I have returned with the Scions.
I hope your journey was not too taxing.
I, Count Edmont de Fortemps, do bid you welcome.
As wards of House Fortemps, you shall be afforded every courtesy. My home is your home.
My companions and I are deeply honored, Count Fortemps.
The honor is mine, Master Alphinaud. Consider it an expression of our gratitude for your service to Ishgard.
Forgive me, my lord, but...are you not concerned? To accept foreign guests at such a juncture─especially ones with our...reputation...
Do not worry yourself on my account. 'Tis true that Ishgard's first thought has ever been the war effort, hence the closing of our borders...
...Yet it is in troubled times most of all that men should seek allies, don't you think?
Granted, my decision will have raised eyebrows in the Vault and in the halls of the other High Houses.
But so long as you continue with your altruistic endeavors, I doubt my honored peers will feel moved to voice their concerns.
Then there is naught to fear. Though our numbers are much reduced, we are no less determined to carry on our work.
Full glad am I to hear it. Ah, but before you return to your labors, why not take a tour of the city?
You would do well, I think, to acquaint yourselves with your new surroundings. After all, you may be here for some time.
Though our friends in House Fortemps have been generous enough to extend us their protection, we must take care not to impose too much on their hospitality.
It is only proper that we learn about our new home, so that we might become more self-sufficient.
It'll take a while to learn the lay of the land, but learn it we must. Then there's the markets and taverns─we'll need to know where to shop and where to hear small talk.
'Twould seem a tour of the city is indeed in order.
I thank you for your counsel, my lord. My companions and I shall of course do as you suggest.
Very good. Then my manservant shall accompany you. He will be able to answer any questions you might have.
Ah, but I grow forgetful in my dotage─there is something I must give you ere we part.
Their documentation is in order, I trust?
Yes, my lord.
Those documents identify you as wards of House Fortemps.
Given that our borders have remained closed for decades, many of my countrymen are unaccustomed to treating with foreigners.
Should anyone happen to question your presence here, it may prove necessary to remind them that you remain under the protection of House Fortemps. But let us hope it shall not come to that.
Rest assured that we shall do our utmost to avoid any situation which might compel us to invoke your name.
Forename, Tataru─the city awaits.
Let's go!
As this is your first time in our fair city, pray permit me to show you to the Hoplon, from whence we may gaze upon the splendor of the Holy Vault. Though all other sights pale in comparison, 'tis only meet that you see it first.
I shall then show you around the Jeweled Crozier, where you may purchase all manner of goods and services, before descending to Foundation's aetheryte plaza. If there are no questions...
The Hoplon, so named for the bronze greatshield borne by our nation's patron deity, is the largest plaza in Ishgard.
The magnificent cathedral to the north is, of course, the Holy Vault.
The Vault is both Ishgard's seat of government and the residence of the archbishop of the Ishgardian Orthodox Church.
Begging your pardon... The statues to the south─are they perchance Thordan's famed “knights twelve”?
Very good, Master Alphinaud. They are the fathers of Ishgard─the brave knights who joined with King Thordan I to put down Nidhogg and found this great nation.
Ours is a city rich in history and tradition, and there is much you can learn by exploring the Pillars─time permitting, of course.
Now then, if you would follow me to the Jeweled Crozier, I shall introduce you to Mistress Elaisse, our master of the markets.
