Ah, Mistress Surname. My lord the count much desires to speak with you regarding your time with Lord Artoirel and Lord Emmanellain. If you would remain here for a moment...
The hero returns! I cannot thank you enough for saving young Emmanellain's life. Aye, aye─he told me everything.
I've also received letters from both House Dzemael and Durendaire praising your conduct─and that of House Fortemps. You've won us much honor, my friend.
My lord!
What is it? Speak.
Pray forgive the intrusion, my lord, but I-I bring grave tidings!
Master Alphinaud and Mistress Tataru have been detained on suspicion of fomenting heresy!
What? Explain!
They...they were observed entering a tavern in the lower levels on some half-dozen occasions. There, it is claimed, they made a number of inquiries...
Inquiries which brought them into contact with certain...ahem...elements. 'Twas this which prompted a knight of the Heavens' Ward to demand that they be questioned. Ser Grinnaux, my lord...
Ser Grinnaux is a brute─an exceedingly accomplished brute, but a brute nonetheless. Alas, he is also a son of House Dzemael.
How quickly we forget the petty nature of men. I'd wager your friends are no more than pawns in another of my countrymen's games. Such is the way of things between the High Houses...
Though you have won the hearts and minds of many of my countrymen, there are those who will never be swayed. Men who will dismiss your efforts and resent your successes, even as we celebrate them.
'Tis like that one such member of House Dzemael is manipulating Ser Grinnaux, for he is not a man to dabble in politics of his own volition. He may genuinely believe your friends to be guilty, though I am quite certain his masters know better.
Yet the truth will avail us naught if we cannot prove their innocence.
You would do well to speak with Ser Aymeric at the Congregation of Our Knights Most Heavenly. He will know more of these charges.
It has been too long, Forename. Would that this visit came under happier circumstances. You are come to plead for Master Alphinaud and Mistress Tataru, I take it?
Word of their detainment reached us while I was delivering my report on the Vanu primal. Truly, I know not which is the more ludicrous─these charges or that flying feathered whale!
That Ser Grinnaux's accusations are baseless, I have no doubt. Refuting them will be difficult, however, as he is a knight of the Heavens' Ward.
I speak of the personal guard of the archbishop─the twelve finest knights in all of Ishgard, sworn to serve His Eminence alone. Suffice it to say, their testimony is unimpeachable, and I have not the authority to challenge their actions.
After all the Scions have done─routing the heretics and defeating Shiva, helping us to defend the Steps of Faith and drive back the Dravanian Horde─after proving themselves true allies on countless occasions, is there naught we can do!?
I fear there is but one path left to us...We must demand a trial by combat.
But of course!
In a trial by combat sanctioned by the inquisition, the victor's claim is judged true regardless of the petitioner's standing!
Under Ishgardian law, a trial by combat pits the accuser against the accused. In this instance, Master Alphinaud and Mistress Tataru would be expected to face Ser Grinnaux and a second of his choosing─another knight of the Heavens' Ward, most like.
Two of them!? By the Fury, that can hardly be considered fair...
Master Alphinaud's magical talents will not have gone unnoticed, meaning that he will have no choice but to participate. Mistress Tataru, on the other hand, is quite obviously bereft of martial skill, and should be afforded the right to name a champion to fight in her stead.
Lest you doubt, I am ready and willing to serve in this capacity, as I am sure is Lord Haurchefant...but all here present know that you are the most accomplished warrior among us, and mayhap in the realm at large...
Then it is settled! I will visit Master Alphinaud at once, and inform him of our intentions. Forename─meet me at the Tribunal when you have made ready. Until then, my friend!
Listen carefully, Forename. When the trial begins, the petitioner will be asked to restate his charges, and the accused invited to respond. Then, in accordance with the law, they will be asked to restate their request for a trial by combat.
Once the high adjudicator acknowledges Mistress Tataru's right to name a champion, that is when you must make your entrance! Ohhh, I cannot wait to see the look on Ser Grinnaux's face when he sees his true opponent! 'Twill be priceless!
More seriously...should you begin to lose heart, look to me in the stands, and I shall cheer so loud, you will wonder how you could ever have contrived to doubt yourself! Now, are you ready?
