Mortals... Why do you disturb my solitude?
Hraesvelgr...
Thou speakest the name of a creature that but awaiteth the release of oblivion. Leave me...
By the Twelve... Mine ears hear the tongue of dragons, yet the meaning rings clear within my mind... How can that be...?
Hraesvelgr...do you not remember me? 'Twas I whom you found in Dravania─I who glimpsed the truth.
The truth about your past, about Shiva─
Do not speak her name, mortal!
But speak it I must! I have summoned Shiva's soul from the beyond, and offered myself as her vessel! She has made her heart known to me!
Foolish girl. Thinkest thou my beloved's spirit hath descended from the heavens!?
That the secrets of her heart are thine to know!?
I have surrendered mine to her! Do you not see, my love? I am Shiva reborn!
Gullible fool... The Light but illuminated the past for thee, it did not grant thee omniscience.
The spirit thou hast summoned belongeth not to Shiva─'tis but a shade conjured by thine own fancy.
In an age long past, mine own kin were guilty of like folly. Beguiled by the dark ones' lies, they attempted to resurrect a king amongst wyrms─yet the divinity they called forth merely borrowed the semblance of my fallen brood-brother.
Such gods are not summoned, but created. Phantoms spun from the threads of misplaced faith.
Then the spirit that answered me...
...Was but thy dream of Shiva. Thy soul hath been corrupted by a deity of thine own making, child.
Be that as it may, Lord Hraesvelgr, Ysayle's desire to heal the rift between man and dragon is real, and it has borne us this far.
We would spare both our kind and yours the ravages of this senseless war! Pray join your voice to ours in a call for peace and forgiveness!
The tale of thy kind is one of avarice, treachery, and death─and thou wouldst speak to me of peace?
Hark thee, mortal, to the naked truth...then tell me thou deservest forgiveness!
Twelve hundred years ago, my beloved Shiva's sacrifice served to bring an end to the war 'twixt man and dragon, paving the way for an age of peace and cooperation.
Two centuries of harmony were to follow, during which time the Elezen learned much about us, not least that the eyes of a great wyrm are the wellspring of his strength.
'Twas out of the selfish desire to possess this strength that King Thordan then conspired to undo all that our peoples had achieved together.
With the aid of his leal knights, that most noble of Elezen lured my brood-sister Ratatoskr into an ambush, and took from her that which he craved.
Fain would I strike the image from my mind, yet still the scene doth linger─of my brood-sister's tattered corpse, defiled by her Elezen allies. They had torn out her eyes, and feasted upon them in the manner of wild beasts.
Yet that was not all, for from their bloody banquet, the fiends had gained strength beyond that of mortal men... Even now, I labor to comprehend the enormity of their betrayal.
Nidhogg was the first to learn of the atrocity, and he took to the skies, hungry for vengeance.
But though he slew Thordan and some few of his knights, their fellow butchers knew only too well where to aim their spears, and with now-practiced savagery, they set about my brood-brother, sending him flailing from the field...
Such is the truth the Holy See would keep hidden. Such was the beginning of the Dragonsong War.
'Tis a song my kind shall ne'er forget, e'en should ten thousand years pass and Ishgard crumble into dust.
Your tale bears scant resemblance to the one I was taught. How convenient that it should absolve your kind of all responsibility. But tell me, dragon: why should I believe your version of events?
What thou choosest to believe is immaterial. The betrayal that yet haunts mine every waking moment is no less than the truth to my kind.
And Nidhogg meaneth for Thordan's people to suffer for this sin till the end of days.
That which thou imaginest a war of extinction is but a punishment─a siege of the spirit. Hast thou not seen those who tire of the torment? Those who abandon their own and side with dragonkind?
Ishgard's so-called heretics...
Know that all the traitors' progeny bear a trace of Ratatoskr's essence. But a single sip of our blood is enough to awaken it...
Then...the seed lies within us...?
'Tis for this reason that those who abandon their loyalties are rewarded with a drink. And thus are they transformed, to join the ranks of Nidhogg's ever-growing army as newborn dragons. One by one, through death or defection, my brood-brother shall account for all of the betrayers' children...
Ye gods... I have borne witness to such a transformation! Looked on as a heretic assumed the shape of a dragon... I imagined it some manner of Dravanian enchantment!
But if any Ishgardian, regardless of allegiance, has such potential within them... Twelve forgive us. To think of all the dragons we've slain...!
There will always be some, of course, who choose to fight until the bitter end─like thee, dragoon...
But struggle as thou might, thy youthful vigor will be spent ere thou reachest two score and ten. And Nidhogg shall remain to torment thine offspring.
Oft have I wondered why Nidhogg did not simply raze Ishgard to the ground.
Now I have my answer. He has no intention of winning the Dragonsong War, for it is no war at all, but vengeance─an eternal requiem sung for his murdered sister.
Thou hast the right of it, dragonslayer. Comprehendest thou now the futility of thy quest?
I have not come this far only to admit defeat. We can still return the Eye to Nidhogg, and beg forgiveness for our ancestors' crimes. Mayhap our words will sway him!
Stubborn child... Thou thinkest in mortal terms. Our perception of time is too broad for thee to grasp.
'Tis a simple matter for thee to offer thine apologies─thou didst not perpetrate the crime. Despite thy visions, the deeds of history seem distant to thee.
For a wyrm such as Nidhogg, however, that history is yet part of his present, as fresh as the blood that did gush from Ratatoskr's wounds. How could he not be driven mad?
'Tis only by the calming embrace of Shiva's soul that mine own fury hath not consumed me.
But let us speak no more of what is done. My faith in your kind is spent, and I would be alone.
Hraesvelgr was every bit as awe-inspiring as I imagined. His voice fairly dripped with power─the will behind his words so undeniable that it transcended my ignorance of the dragons' tongue. 'Tis but a pity that I misliked what he said.
<sigh> So far did we travel─even unto the very heavens themselves─only to be dismissed like unruly children. And far from mitigating this...humiliation, the hidden truths we have learned serve only to prove that our grand mission of peace was destined to fail from the first.
Nothing will deter Nidhogg from his course.
Well, what do you propose we do now? I, for one, am intent on continuing to the east...
What is there to be found in the east?
Nidhogg's lair─the Aery─is said to lie in that direction. And the Eye tells me he is near...
You cannot still mean to slay him!?
You cannot still mean to stop me. I have been true to my word, and aided you in this fool's errand with Hraesvelgr.
But your efforts at parley have come to naught, Lady Iceheart. I would see Ishgard saved, and for that, Nidhogg must die.
With the tale of our ancestors' vile betrayal yet ringing in your ears, you speak of continuing this war?
Nay, lady, I would but pierce its vengeful heart. When Nidhogg dies, this war shall die with him.
A moment, Estinien. You yourself spoke of the great wyrm's strength─that you believed him powerful enough to raze your city to the ground. How then are we few to challenge him?
Even behind the stout walls of Ishgard─with an army of knights manning the defenses─our victory would be hard-won. Yet you propose to contend with the beast in his own lair?
In close combat, this will afford us an advantage. And if the tales are true, the Warrior of Light has bested many an invincible foe.
But such speculation is meaningless if we cannot even find the wyrm. Our first task must be to seek out Nidhogg's lair.
The story of this nation grows bloodier by the moment. Must death always be answered with more of the same?
Such is the way of things, I fear. I shall consider it a miracle if mine armor is not stained crimson ere this conflict is ended.
That I should be blinded by my own lies... Everything I believed... Everything I thought I was... Gone... All gone...
Leave her. Your words will not reach her now. And we have not the time to wait for her to gather up the pieces of her shattered faith.
Is that it?
Aye... That would be the Aery. I feel Nidhogg's presence through the Eye─his caustic hatred gnawing at my soul.
'Twould seem the death of his consort has put him on guard. Mark how he wards his lair with tempestuous winds.
A similar barrier once barred our entrance to the primal Garuda's domain...until we discovered the means by which it could be penetrated.
Mayhap it is time we called upon Master Garlond. 'Twill be just like the good old days, no?
Hm. A force of sufficient power to break through a primal's defenses might conceivably grant us access to the Aery...
...And I can offer no better solution. Pray consult this engineer friend of yours.
Very well. On the condition that you swear not to lure Nidhogg from his lair in our absence.
And steal all the glory for myself, you mean? Nay, I am not so selfish as that. Contact me by linkpearl when your preparations are complete, and we shall set forth from Ishgard together.
I suggest we rendezvous back at Saint Reinette's Forum, Forename. From what I gleaned of the Holy See's decidedly ambitious airship project, Cid will still be in Ishgard.
When last you saw Master Garlond, he was advising the Ishgardians on their ailing airship, correct? In that case, he might still be at Camp Cloudtop. Failing that, we could try the airship landing, or mayhap even the Skysteel Manufactory... But let us not waste time searching aimlessly. Someone in the city is sure to know where to find him. The question is who? Ser Aymeric would seem the obvious choice, but there is no guaranteeing he will be able to grant us an audience at short notice...
Ah, I have it! Count Edmont's youngest son prides himself on knowing all of the Holy See's juiciest rumors. Let us return to the manor and see if Lord Emmanellain is about.
Ah, the hero returns! How goes the fight, old girl? Well, I trust! ...Hm? In search of a “Cid Garlond,” you say? Then say no more!
The taverns are full of talk, and the name of said silver-haired genius has cropped up more often than most. I hear he has been tasked with getting that monstrous airship the Holy See commissioned to actually fly. 'Twould seem the project has been plagued with mishaps from the first.
In any case, Garlond Ironworks employees are known to frequent the airship landing, and I'll wager their master does too.
The airship landing? Yes, I thought as much. Come, Forename─we must find Cid and trouble him for his expert opinion.
Forename! Alphinaud! How fare you both? Not terribly well, judging by your faces.
Greetings, Master Garlond. I am sure it will come as little surprise when I tell you we have need of a favor...
...Another wind barrier? And you say it was conjured by Nidhogg?
Hm. The Enterprise could certainly take you where you need to go...but she would not fare well against dragons. She's agile for a ship her size─but not that agile. The Dravanians would fly rings around her.
And if they took it into their heads to incinerate the rigging, there would be precious little we could do to avoid them.
But there must be something we can do! Some manner of weapon we could employ...?
Estinien stands vigil at the edge of the Churning Mists, but we do not know how much longer─
All right, all right, I didn't say it was impossible. I said it was impossible for the Enterprise. We need a smaller boat.
Biggs! Wedge! It's time we gave that new toy of yours a proper field test.
It's probably best if I let the lads show you. Come on, the manufactory's not far!
Our little project's just inside. Oh, you're going to like this one...
Feast your eyes upon our latest and greatest feat of engineering! We call it a “manacutter”!
After you put down Gaius, Wedge and me struck out on our own for a bit, and started work on the successor to the Tiny Bronco.
Impressive little thing, isn't she? My talent for ship design has plainly rubbed off on them.
They've adapted the principles of corrupted crystal technology, and constructed a mechanism which converts aether from its surroundings into elemental wind. Said wind is then harnessed by the specially engineered sails, providing the craft with propulsion and lift. All in all, a most elegant solution...
...I'm actually a little upset that I didn't think of it myself.
The design does, however, come with one small flaw...
The energy conversion ratio's bloody awful. To generate enough power to get you off the ground, you need to be in an area awash with predominantly wind-aspected aether.
In other words, there are a few places you can fly...and lots of places you can't.
The new Ishgardian airship hasn't left the boys much time for tinkering─meaning it may be a while before this particular project takes off, if you'll forgive the pun.
Hah...hah...hah...
Tataru, what's happened!?
I've been looking all over for you! There's been word from Ul'dah! It's about Her Grace, the sultana!
It seems you're required elsewhere. Leave the manacutter with us. We'll see that she's airworthy and suitably equipped to slice through those winds.
You, meanwhile, should concentrate on providing Raubahn and the sultana whatever help they need!
General Raubahn says they may have uncovered the sultana's whereabouts!
And he wants you─by which I mean both of you─to go to the Waking Sands right away and help with the investigation.
Come, Forename─pressing though Ishgard's plight may be, our presence here will not serve to hasten the manacutter's completion. Let us return to the troubled lands of Thanalan and lend what aid we may.
Tataru─have our friends at the Congregation send a message to Estinien. Tell him we have identified a solution to our problem, but that it will take some time to prepare.
As you wish, Master Alphinaud!
To the Waking Sands, Warrior of Light. 'Tis past time Ul'dah was delivered from this darkness!
Thank you for coming.
No thanks are necessary, General. I trust your recuperation continues apace?
I cannot complain. Thanks to Higiri and her ministrations, I've regained much of the strength I lost during my imprisonment.
I gather you have made progress in the search for Her Grace.
Aye, some good fortune at last. A few days past, Dewlala informed us that a sizable shipment of alchemical supplies had been delivered to the palace.
With Papashan's assistance, I set out to ascertain the source and nature of the shipment. My inquiries led me to Frondale's Phrontistery.
There I learned that an order had been placed for a curious substance designed to sustain patients trapped in deathlike slumber─an invention of the former head alchemist, apparently.
A deathlike slumber...? This cannot be a coincidence!
It lends some weight to Dewlala's claims, aye. Her Grace is likely somewhere within the palace─abed but alive.
Before making any attempt to extricate the sultana, however, it seemed prudent to learn what manner of substance was used to induce her torpor. To that end, I made inquiries as to the whereabouts of the one most like to have administered it─the lady-in-waiting, Meriel.
We sent for you as soon as we learned of her location. All that remains is to apprehend the woman.
We shall find our cat's-paw in the Silver Bazaar.
But we must tread carefully. The market is not the bustling place it once was, and someone is sure to mark our coming. Should they inform the Monetarists, we'll have a fight on our hands.
We must be prepared for the worst─and being short an arm, I thought it wise to take another in its stead. What say you, Warrior of Light? Will you lend me yours?
Then I pity the bastard that stands in our way. Come, my friends! For Nanamo...and for Ul'dah!
Our target is Meriel, the sultana's former lady-in-waiting─a woman of Midlander heritage. I am told the two of you have met.
Our sources indicate that she left the palace shortly after the incident, and quietly rejoined the dwindling population of the Silver Bazaar. I suggest we begin by questioning the market's residents, and confirm that Meriel is still in hiding there.
