Graaaaaah!Kill! Kill you all!
<snarl> Death!Death comes for you!
Arenvald has gotten stronger, hasn't he?
Piles upon piles of treasure... I can scarcely imagine how much there is.
To think that monster used to be a man...
Are you all right?
Aye...aye... Everything's still attached.
Ah... It seems both our paths led here. Very good.
We spent altogether too much time fleeing fiends horrid and numerous. How fared you?
Much the same, then. 'Twould appear this place is yet inhabited by King Theodoric's kin─or what is left of them. The work of terrible magicks, I fear...
'Twould appear this place is yet inhabited by King Theodoric's kin─or what is left of them. The work of terrible magicks, I fear...
Terrible, aye, but their misfortune is our...fortune?
Quite... By the Twelve, there is even more than I imagined...
Oh, I can't wait to see the look on Lyse's face! Thanks for believing in me, you two!
Arenvald and I forged ahead at the fastest pace we could manage, but I was not surprised to find you waiting for us. I suppose it serves us right for challenging the Warrior of Light. Next time, we should agree on some manner of handicap...
Ah, we may have lost, Alphinaud─but think of what we found!
Quite. I am still reeling at the sight of that mountain of riches...
What, like how you reeled at the sight of that floating specter, you mean? You should have heard him scream, Forename!
Arenvald and I tried to do our fair share, but I fear you ended up bearing the bulk of the burden as usual. You truly led the way with your adventuring prowess, my friend.
Aye, without your help, I reckon we'd still be fumbling about in the dark. I'm glad I called on you!
I must say, I am still reeling at the sight of that mountain of riches...
What, like how you reeled at the sight of that floating specter, you mean? I wish you could've seen the look on your own face, Alphinaud!
M-Must we dwell on such momentary lapses!? We found the mad king's trove, and that is all that matters!
All jesting aside, we must tell people the good news. And I think Lyse should be the first.
Seconded. There is to be a meeting of representatives from across Ala Mhigo, so she is sure to be in the city. Shall we seek her out?
Seconded. She is bound to be delighted.
If I am no longer needed, then I shall take my leave.
Of course, don't let us keep you. Thanks again, and say hello to V'mah for me.
Now then, there is to be a meeting of representatives from across Ala Mhigo, so Lyse is sure to be in the city. Shall we seek her out?
Oh? You three look pleased with yourselves. What've you been up to?
I'm glad you asked, Lyse. And I'm pretty sure you're going to like the answer...
You're joking... The mad king's trove!? I thought it was a myth!
So did plenty of people. But they didn't have Forename and Alphinaud in their party. The credit for finding it should really go to them. As for what to do with it all...I vote that it go towards alleviating the suffering of Ala Mhigo's poor.
Gods... If there's as much as you say...
Arenvald did not exaggerate, I assure you. We could not hope to carry even a fraction of it out on our own. I have taken the liberty of sketching out a rough map of the ruins─if you will assemble a squad of your most trusted freedom fighters, they should be able to follow the route to where the treasure lies.
Understood. I'll make sure every coin is accounted for, and that goes for the spending of it as well!
Thank you.
Oh, there is one other thing: when the time comes to draw up a plan for distributing the spoils, I would ask that you consult Alphinaud.
I don't have a head for details. I'm not...educated. I see that simply handing out sacks of gil won't solve everything, but I couldn't rightly tell you what to do instead.
Oh, I know the feeling! I'd welcome any advice you could give us, Alphinaud.
Of course. I shall be at your disposal.
Commander! We've got a problem!
Deep breaths. Tell me what's happened.
A mob's gathered outside headquarters, and they've started making demands. You'd best come and see for yourself!
Step back, all of you!
