You trespass, mortal, upon sacred ground.In retribution, four souls have I bound.
Yet to heroes proven learned and wise, a comrade's soul shall be their prize.
If you would see theirs set free, answer me these riddles three.
Deft of paw, with kin do I vie. Though sought apart, betterment of the whole do our efforts descry. What...am...I?
Alas, 'twas the opo-opo. Keen and shrewd, its spirit exalts ingenuity, a virtue by which the Ronkans did prosperity pursue.
For this mistake, a single talisman I shall take.
For this mistake, a single talisman I shall take.
Alas, 'twas the opo-opo. Keen and shrewd, its spirit exalts ingenuity, a virtue by which the Ronkans did prosperity pursue.
For this mistake, a single talisman I shall take.
For this mistake, a single talisman I shall take.
Indeed, the opo-opo is keen and shrewd. The spirit of ingenuity, by whose guidance the Ronkans did prosperity pursue. The riddle's answer you did discern, and thus to you a soul returns.
Indeed, the opo-opo is keen and shrewd. The spirit of ingenuity, by whose guidance the Ronkans did prosperity pursue. The riddle's answer you did discern, and thus to you a soul returns.
Thank goodness...
With fearsome fang, I travel with pack. Together we find harmony, and thus for peace our land does not lack. What...am...I?
What is this meant to be?
Perhaps a hint is carved in the stone.
Alas, 'twas the wolf their doctrines praised. That they might know peace and harmony to the end of their days.
For this mistake, a single talisman I shall take.
For this mistake, a single talisman I shall take.
Cymet! No!
Indeed, 'twas the spirit of the wolf their doctrines praised. That they would know peace and harmony to the end of their days. The riddle's answer you did discern, and thus to you a soul returns.
Indeed, 'twas the spirit of the wolf their doctrines praised. That they would know peace and harmony to the end of their days. The riddle's answer you did discern, and thus to you a soul returns.
Wha...what happened...?
Alas, 'twas the wolf their doctrines praised. That they might know peace and harmony to the end of their days.
For this mistake, a single talisman I shall take.
For this mistake, a single talisman I shall take.
Cymet! No!
On my belly do I crawl. By my strength does prosperity reign within our hall. What...am...I?
Crawls on its belly...?
Are these even animals?
<sigh> I can make no sense of this riddle.
Hmmm...
Indeed, the dread serpent turned protector, lured to slumber ere it tear the world asunder. The riddle's answer you did discern, and thus to you a soul returns.
Indeed, the dread serpent turned protector, lured to slumber ere it tear the world asunder. The riddle's answer you did discern, and thus to you a soul returns.
My thanks.
Alas, 'twas a snake. The dread serpent turned protector, lured to slumber ere it tear the world asunder.
For this mistake, a single talisman I shall take.
For this mistake, a single talisman I shall take.
We have to get them back... We have to!
Almet will be fine... She has to be...
Alas, 'twas a snake. The dread serpent turned protector, lured to slumber ere it tear the world asunder.
For this mistake, a single talisman I shall take.
For this mistake, a single talisman I shall take.
We have to get them back... We have to!
Almet will be fine... She has to be...
Desire you that which I yet claim? Then we shall play another game...
A test of mind and memory. Choose wisely, and you all may yet go free.
'Twixt these talismans hide friend and foe. Choose your companions well, or sorrow know.
Would that I could read these talismans.
Whatever comes out, we can handle it.
I tire of this guardian's games.
Is there perhaps some meaning to their arrangement?
Go on. Trust your instincts.
Soon we can quit this place..
We must choose carefully.
I will defer to your judgment.
The choice is clear.
Strange... All of these talismans appear blank to my eye.
I trust you'll make the right choice this time.
What surprise is in store for us next, I wonder.
What surprise is in store for us next, I wonder.
What surprise is in store for us next, I wonder.
Finally.
Ah! What is that!?
On your guard!
Let us be brief.
Let us be brief.
Thank goodness...
Thank goodness...
Wha...what happened...?
Wha...what happened...?
My thanks.
My thanks.
Well done.
Your comrades are assembled, together at last...
Yet still there remains one trial you must pass.
If you would glean the knowledge enshrined in this earth, I would first take the measure of your worth.
One worthy of she who the Ronkans extolled, must be strong of mind, body, and soul.
Finally! This is what I was expecting to find here in the ruins.
Be careful, sisters!
Hold nothing back. Failure of this test does not appear to be an option.
Quickly─fan out before it strikes!
Its sights are set on Y'shtola! Hurry, we must protect her!
Thank you.
Victory oft begs sacrifice, but which of you would pay the price?
Forename! Hurry, we have to save her!
Right!
Oh, no─Cymet!
Impressive...
A pathetic display, one and all. The weak shall not be suffered to disgrace this sacred hall.
We have to hold on!
You may think you have won, but we have only just begun!
Poison!? <cough> <cough> Come, gather around me.
Reinforcements? Leave them to me!
There are so many!
We mustn't waste time with this slime─focus on the guardian!
Quickly, before they can overwhelm us!
Show them your all!
Well fought, hero, the trial is complete. The way is open, and thus...I concede...defeat...
Not wholly unexpected, but an exhausting ordeal nevertheless.
That should be the last of the chamber's defenses.
At last we can leave.
I am glad that is over...
'Twould seem the magicks have returned us. How polite.
Now, what have we learned?
Oh, we were bound to run into a living statue eventually. And now we can open the door!
“He who would disturb a hero's deserved slumber...”
A tomb, just as I thought. Befitting a hero.
She is Viis! Could it be the archmage Tiuna?
A legendary hero of Ronka, as you surmised. The tales tell of how she smote entire armies with a single incantation, so potent was her spellcraft─though she ever fought in the name of peace.
I thought them no more than tales. To think she really existed...
Well, I for one always believed!
I wonder...
By the light...of fallen stars...great power awakens...
Tiuna was not only a master of spellcraft. It is said she could see truths long lost and hear the voices of men's hearts.
Naught less than the Echo.
In which case...none of this is mere coincidence.
A shower of stars setting the sky aflame─and in both this world and the Source, we find individuals within whom a mysterious power awakened at the sight.
We could never unpick the why of it. Now, however...I believe we might.
Does the scene depicted here not resemble the one we saw when we first ventured into the Qitana Ravel?
Moreover, does it not recall that which Emet-Selch invited us to witness in Amaurot?
The Final Days.
If, as the Exarch's research suggests, soul and mind share a fragile yet profound bond, might it not be possible for an event to leave such a deep imprint upon the soul that it could be perceived eons later─given a suitable trigger?
The Echo defies explanation by conventional aetherological theory. Or shall we say, modern aetherological theory.
But if it is a power that once belonged to the ancients, to souls yet undivided...
It would seem I have entered the realm of pure speculation. And I call myself a scholar.
I shall refrain from making any further wild claims until such time as I have evidence.
Still, I cannot choose but be reminded of our experience in Amaurot...
“Remember us.”
“History is learned, not lived.”
We have always protected the tales of Ronka, just as we have protected this place. But we are mindful of what our mothers taught us.
We see the past through our own eyes, and speak of it with our own words. Thus do we come to understand it, in our own way. But this is not the same as remembering.
Your mothers were wise.
Though we witnessed the Final Days, our impressions could not fail to be colored by our own experiences and expectations. Those who lived through it would have perceived the event quite differently.
We must bear in mind that it is no simple matter to keep the truth alive, or it will die with Emet-Selch and his kin.
But we have disturbed Tiuna long enough. Fanow will serve similarly well as a venue for our contemplations.
By your pensive expression, I take it the tomb has given you much to think about. That is well. In time, the knowledge you have gleaned will lead to understanding, and thus arm you for what is to come.
Before you leave, however, I would speak again of the teachings of our forebears. Of histories learned, not lived.
The legend of Tiuna and her exploits has been told countless times over the centuries. Yet as it is handed from one generation to the next, the story changes.
With each telling of the tale there are new flourishes─details changed or lost. We can never truly know how she lived, for we were not there to see it.
But we are here now to bear witness to your life. We have seen the change you have wrought, the echoes that will endure long after you are gone. And though it too will change in time, I swear to you, we shall do our best to preserve your story.
I hope you'll forgive me if I don't make an oath of my own, but I think it goes without saying we could never misspeak of your heroism.
Perish the thought! So long as we are here, there are none among the Viis who will not know of all you have done for Norvrandt.
We are not deserving of such reverence, but we are grateful all the same. You can be certain we will have our own tales to tell of the great guardians of Rak'tika and the ruins of Ronka.
I pray you safe travels, then. As ever, we shall await your return with open arms.
Although we learned naught of the Ascians, the insight we gained into the Echo made our trip worthwhile.
Before we return to the Crystarium, however, there is a small matter I would attend to in Slitherbough. Might I trouble you to come with me?
Thank you. After we arrive, we should have a brief word with Runar.
Forename! It is so good to see you!
You've arrived at a most opportune time. I was preparing a pot of my famous stew. Come, I will ready a place for you.
I'm sorry, Runar, but we haven't the─
Please, I insist! It will take only a minute.
<sigh> My apologies, Forename. It seems our return to the Crystarium will be delayed.
But perhaps only for a bit─if you assist me with my work.
I say “work,” but it is rather more a chore. I must clean my chambers here in Slitherbough from top to bottom. If you would be so kind as to go and fetch a broom from Asgeir, we might finish before Runar is done cooking.
A broom for...Master Matoya...?
I cannot imagine why she would have need of such a thing, but here you are. It is old but sturdy and sure to suffice.
I trust Asgeir was able to find a broom for us?
Well worn. Good. This would prove difficult otherwise.
Though I must say, I think I did rather well for not having a broom thus far.
...Yes, well, you weren't buried beneath a veritable avalanche of books when you entered, were you? Right. Anyway, it is time I finished cleaning with the help of that broom.
You didn't honestly think I'd do it the old-fashioned way? That broom is more than capable of sweeping by itself. Or rather, it will be... Ahem.
Time to rise, to swish and sweep,A tidy chamber you must keep.To this task you shall be bound,Until no dust is to be found.
In this one particular respect, I've no objections to following in Master Matoya's footsteps.
In future, I may need you to remind me the pursuit of knowledge does not preclude other equally important duties... Such as maintaining clean quarters for said pursuit.
<sigh> I will dearly miss this place. These people...
M-Master Matoya! Pardon the interruption, but the stew is ready.
Is something troubling you? You've been rather quiet.
N-No! Everything is fine, I assure you. It has been a long day, is all.
I see...
Y'shtola! Thank goodness you're still here.
Alphinaud? I thought you were following Ardbert.
I was, though I'm sad to say I lost track of him shortly after entering these woods.
He seems determined to traverse every ilm of Norvrandt in his quest to spread the truth of the Warriors of Light and the Flood.
And it seems news of your address at the Crystarium precedes him at every destination, making his task all the more simple.
It remains to be seen to what end he encourages the people to become Warriors of Light themselves...
...But there is no denying that his words have struck a chord with many.
Well, we're all agreed that this is just another Ascian ploy, yes?
They've commandeered corpses before, and to no good end. I see no reason to think this time is any different─especially when it's that of a fallen Warrior of Light.
I doubt we'll learn more if we remain a step behind.
His next destination is, in all likelihood, Slitherbough...
Alisaie, are you certain you should be here?
If you're concerned about Halric and the others, you needn't be. Their treatment is going well, but progress is slow and exhausting─for all of us. The best thing I can do now is let them rest. So─I believe we were about to discuss how to arrange a meeting with our would-be Warrior of Light?
Before visiting any towns or villages, Ardbert would hunt down and slay a nearby sin eater to earn the locals' trust.
Our best chance of getting ahead of him is to find one before he does.
Thankfully, Thancred and Ryne are returned from the Empty and have taken up the search.
Ryne believeth one may lurk beneath the boughs of Woven Oath.
Then that is where we will start our search.
Master Matoya!
I...er... A warm bowl of stew will be awaiting your return.
I look forward to it.
If you were hoping to vent your frustrations on our eater friend here, I can only apologize.
Few as they are now, it took us no time at all to track it down.
That suits our purpose perfectly. Now we need only wait for Ardbert to arrive.
Weren't you two meant to be attending to the Empty?
We were, and are. But we can hardly ignore the rest of the world, so we thought we might see how things were coming along. From what we can gather, the answer is “strangely.”
Right now, we think we can do more good here.
It is heartening to have all present.
Indeed! We will be glad of the additional hands should matters escalate.
Our quarry is come.
Hah. It seems I've lost this particular race.
Ah, though I suppose it's only fair.
When we first met, it was I who outpaced you. Ravana, was it?
But where are my manners? I wouldn't be here were it not for you, and I have yet to say a word of thanks!
Arm giving you trouble? You should have it examined.
Poor fellow. He will be sorely missed.
Very well. Let us forgo this pretense.
After all, it was never you that I needed to deceive.
Yes, it is I, Elidibus.
Through your time in Emet-Selch's imitation of our home, I daresay you have gained a better understanding of my role since last we met. Not that it matters.
We understand your role, Emissary, but not your goal. What is it that you seek to achieve?
I seek to enact the will of the Convocation, of course. If it helps you to think of me as but another Ascian, no different in nature or purpose from the rest, you are welcome to do so.
Once, I would have said your goal was destruction alone.
Now I understand that you fight for something you love, just as we do.
Yet though we seem doomed to clash, I bid you consider Emet-Selch's final words.
“Remember that we once lived,” he said. Had he not seen some glimmer of hope in our kind, I do not believe he would have spoken thus.
None better understood your plight than he. His words must surely be worthy of your consideration.
Emet-Selch...
How very unlike you, to err so gravely.
That one should stray at the end of so onerous a path is understandable, but I had thought you above such weakness. Mayhap you thought the same. Would that I had been present to offer correction...
But I shall do so now, as is my duty, and return all to its proper course.
As for you... Look at yourselves. Look at your history. Look back one hundred short years, to how your greatest warriors were undone.
And now? At but a word from me, you raise your hands in answer like the puppets you are.
Naught has changed.
You fail and you fail and you learn nothing─allow that which is most important to slip through your fumbling fingers like so many grains of sand. Again and again and again. And you would remember us? You do forget yourselves.
There is no common ground to be found between you and I. Nor do I require any.
I have my duty.
Wait!
Well...we have confirmed the identity of our foe, at least. And 'tis safe to say his objective is the Rejoining.
But we still have no idea how playing the part of a Warrior of Light will further his cause, nor why he would spur others to do the same.
Another visit to the Tempest may shed some light upon these mysteries.
Whether we are to exchange words or blows with Elidibus at our next meeting, the fact remains: we know too little.
Ere our paths cross again, I would learn more of the world that once was─and of Elidibus himself.
In this, we would be best served going directly to his home, much as Emet-Selch came to ours.
Though I see the wisdom in thy suggestion, the Amaurot we visited is but a phantom born of Emet-Selch's memory. I fear it will teach us little that we do not already know.
I quite agree. Yet the ruins of the actual city remain unexplored.
Given the vastness of the Tempest, I should not be surprised were there more such structures like to those in which the Ondo reside.
A woman after my own heart.
Mayhap your skepticism will leaven my curiosity.
Keep that up and I'll send you to bed without supper.
Assuming we are all in agreement, then, I suggest we first pay a visit to the Ondo. If anyone can tell us where more ruins are to be found, it is them.
Alphinaud has the right of it. Let us pay visit to the Ondo.
We should speak with Tolshs Aath first. As chieftain, he is doubtless privy to a great many secrets.
I have sent for no finless ones. Perhaps you instead come seeking something of usss?
Ruins which your kind have yet to explore... I sssee.
I know of one such place. Alas, under these circumstances, I am afraid we can spare none to guide you there.
And what circumstances are these?
Rather than hunt for their own meals, the benthos have pillaged our stores of mnyiri liver. They must be replenished with haste.
The benthos... A particularly violent tribe of Ondo, if I recall?
A band of bottom-feeders. We all lost much in the Flood, but while others work to rebuild, they resort to thievery and murder.
Revenge, they call it, when they prey upon your kind─but do not be fooled. They care not who they harm. Would that we had the warriors to challenge them.
This is not the first time they have ssstolen from us, but there is no resource more precious than liver. All must dedicate themselves to the hunt.
Unless, of course, we were to reclaim the livers for you.
It seems a fitting payment for vital information, does it not?
Moreover, one could argue that by employing Bismarck to reach these depths, thereby driving back the waters, we are in part responsible for the deeds of those driven to desperate ends by the changing climes.
I thought you might say that. You've never been one to miss an opportunity to help.
I thought you might say that. You've never been one to miss an opportunity to help.
We might...but that wouldn't discourage the benthos from stealing from the Ondo again, now would it?
Reclaiming the stores it is, then.
We would be grateful beyond words if you did.
The benthos have surely taken the livers back to the Flounders' Floor. But be warned─there will be no shortage of guards waiting to ssspear intruders.
Then we will have care not to draw their attention. Shall we?
Then we will have care not to draw their attention. Shall we?
Then we will have care not to draw their attention. Shall we?
Then we will have care not to draw their attention. Shall we?
Then we will have care not to draw their attention. Shall we?
Are those them?
Perhaps you've deduced this already, but it seems the benthos have been raiding Kholusian storehouses as well as those of the Ondo.
Oranges, pumpkins, wheat...
But we can discuss this after we see the livers safely back to Tolshs Aath. It wouldn't do to keep him in suspense.
I am relieved to see you unspeared.
Our precious livers! I knew you would not fail!
We also found all manner of foodstuffs from Kholusia in the Flounders' Floor. Tell me, Tolshs Aath, does that seem odd to you?
It is brazen, to be sure...
I'm reminded of rumors I've heard recently concerning a rash of thefts from Kholusian warehouses. The perpetrators enter in the dead of night and are gone before anyone has realized what has happened.
The Eulmoran Army has been investigating, but thus far to no avail.
Perhaps the reason they have struggled so is that their quarry is of the sea...
The true question, then, is what we mean to do about it. Much as I would like to proceed to the ruins without further delay, we cannot allow the benthos to carry on as they are.
If I may─I believe that the ruins are, in fact, key to the benthos' plans.
Is that so?
These ruins, which lie deep within the illuminated land, are a recent discovery.
We have seen signs that the benthos are preparing to claim them with all haste. We could not fathom why, but in light of the knowledge that they have been stockpiling resources...
It is clear that their queen will sssoon give birth.
They require space to raise their young, and food for both queen and hatchlings to thrive.
Well, we can hardly fault them for that.
Under normal circumstances, perhapsss. But conditions in the Tempest are far from suitable for spawning, its resources barely able to sustain our current population. There is only one reason they would disregard this.
They seek to build an army, and with it take revenge upon the finless.
It is not a surprise. They came to us not long ago, seeking allies for the cause. We rebuffed them, of course─the suffering of others will not serve as balm to their own. Their queen, however, desires only bloodshed, and will gladly send her children to die in our stead.
If they are planning to wage war, that changes matters considerably.
Indeed.
I doubt that this can be resolved without violence, but perhaps with a show of force we can convince them to see reason before the die is cast.
I would rather not risk your people in the attempt. If we travel to the illuminated land, is there a way we might identify the ruins ourselves?
Yes. Once you reach its depths, go deeper still. You will see a monstrous structure there upon the sea floor.
That you have come to us now is the will of the ancient ones. They have guided you here that you may drive out the usurpers─those who seek to use their magnificent creations with vile purpose.
I have no doubt that they will show you the way forward.
I'm afraid that the dead do not speak quite so clearly. Nevertheless, we shall try not to disappoint.
If what we seek lieth deeper still, beyond Amaurot, I would call upon the assistance of another...
Though our course hath been decided, to pursue it we must needs beseech the aid of a friend.
Aye, I speak of Bismarck. Pray follow me to Sullen that we might seek an audience with him once more.
From here, we press onward to the Isle of Ken. I myself shall proceed on foot.
You've perfected your technique, then?
Just so─the water will be as glass beneath my feet, and provideth purchase fragile yet true. Watch closely.
Oh, I certainly shall.
Forgive me, but would it not be easier to perfect your swimming technique?
Aye, 'twould be a pity if you drowned. Truly.
Oh, hush. I'm sure it'll be brilliant!
He's done it!
Incredible!
Urianger!
For the love of─
M-Mine apologies. The technique requireth the purest of focus, and mine...'twas lacking.
To perfect this magick I went so far as to deal with the Fuath, and with their aid mine efforts finally met with success...albeit on a single occasion.
I know not why I cannot repeat it.
I thought I saw you waver a bit toward the end there. Perhaps you're simply...tired...?
Thancred!?
It's nothing to worry about─only a dizzy spell. Though it may not be wise to go for another swim just now...
Thankfully, we have an alternative. A wonderful little invention, I'm certain you'll agree.
I will petition Bismarck's aid on our behalf. Let us pray my diplomacy proveth more effective than mine experimental magicks...
[You speak with the voice of the king, little neighbors. I will not deny you.]
[As before, if you seek what sleeps beneath the sea, I will be your guide.]
[Thy kindness is as boundless as the depths, serene one.]
[Before we depart, however, I would ask a favor.]
[After our last flight, I found many creatures clinging to me. I am...itchy.]
[Remove them, and I will take you below.]
[With all haste shall it be done.]
So? Did he agree?
Aye, though I agreed to a favor in kind...
Regrettably, 'tis not one I possess the power to grant. Bismarck hath asked us to cleanse his underbelly of barnacles.
Alas, one must needs dive beneath the surface to do so. Even if I could master the power to walk upon it, it would avail me naught.
Oh, for heavens' sake, is that all!? Forename and I are more than capable of that.
With the Kojin's blessing, we'll have done with it in moments─and better that than standing here and listening to this nonsense! I'll take the right, you the left. Now go!
...I am in your debt.
...I am in your debt.
...I am in your debt.
...I am in your debt.
Thine efforts are most sincerely appreciated. I will inform Bismarck that we may depart without further delay.
[Much, much better. Thank you, little neighbors.]
[I remember...a long time ago, another did this favor for me.]
[After the Flood, when I chose this spot for my slumber... He came and made a home on my back. Ken was his name.]
[When I grew itchy, I stirred. But he was not afraid. No─he asked me what was wrong.]
[I told him of the creatures clinging to my belly, and he dove into the water. He helped me. He was my friend.]
[He told me he wished to live in peace, away from his people and their wars. This, I understood.]
[I treasured our time together, brief though it was. Brief though it always is. But I remember him, and how he laughed when we flew...]
[...I remember when he slept. I too slept that day, and many days since.]
[But the light fades and the darkness returns. Ken sleeps, but in memory he laughs, and together we fly. And I am here. I am awake.]
[Mmm... It feels good to speak and to be heard again. A shame others cannot understand me.]
[If thou art willing to learn, I would gladly teach thee the language of man.]
[Thank you, little friend. But it is time I grant you your request.]
[But first, I will take flight to cleanse my body and prepare. The dive will be swift, and I would not have you struck by errant debris.]
So this “island” was named for a man. How easily the past is forgotten.
He passed not even one hundred years ago, yet the truth has slipped from history. Like so many grains of sand...
...Might I have some explanation of what he just said, or shall we all stand about making vague and mysterious allusions?
While he maketh ready to deliver us unto our destination, Bismarck bade us wait for him on the shore of Kholusia.
That's all...? I feel as though there was more to it.
Indeed, there was...but it hath no bearing on the task at hand. I should be glad to share the rest with you anon.
Fine. Later, then.
If Bismarck requires time to prepare, might I suggest a short respite? For Urianger and Thancred, in particular.
I require no such thing. I am the picture of perfect health.
Mine was but a momentary lapse in concentration. Worry not on my account.
You mustn't push yourselves so! Please, rest! For me?
Oh, all right. If you insist.
You too, Forename! You've been running yourself ragged!
Just go quietly, Forename. Trust me.
In that case, I leave the old men in your care. The rest of us will meet you at the Split Hull anon.
<sigh> Word of advice─never let it show. When she realizes she's struck a nerve, she remembers. By the gods, she remembers...
In any case, if we must be made to rest, I know a place in Sullen that's better for it than most. Come with me.
May as well have a seat. We wouldn't want our elderly knees to give out.
To hear her speak you'd think I'm on my deathbed. By the Twelve, I wish that girl wouldn't worry so much.
Thy countenance belies thy words, Master Thancred.
I'm sure I don't know what you mean. Let the record show that I am here under protest.
...Though I can't say I mind the view.
And if the abundance of anglers is any indication, even an amateur might land an impressive catch. Shall we try our hands at it?
