The Third Promise and her retinue, I presume.
You presume right. I seek the Dawnservant's elector.
Then come and join us in the Garden of the Stars, at the village center. Everyone is waiting for you.
“Everyone”?
And who might that be...?
There is but one way to find out. Come, let us follow him.
At last we are graced by the presence of the Third Promise.
If I'd known we'd be waiting on your mangy hide, I wouldn't have bothered with Valigarmanda in the first place.
You self-serving piece of wivre dung! Do you have any idea how many could've been hurt!?
Now that we are assembled, let us begin.
My name is Hunmu Rruk. As Xbr'aax Rax, I have the honor of serving as elector on behalf of my people.
As all four claimants must be present for this feat, we have eagerly awaited your arrival.
Third Promise, if you would please join us.
Thus far, you have faced each other as rivals. The Feat of Repast, however, will test your cooperation. You must complete this challenge in teams of two.
What!? You expect us to work with one of these weaklings!?
Be warned─only the triumphant team will receive keystones. I advise you to cooperate with your partner.
Teams will be decided by lots. Those who draw the same color will be paired accordingly.
Twelve forbid Wuk Lamat is paired with Bakool Ja Ja. After all he's put her through, I wouldn't blame her if she did something rash. I might even help.
Claimants, please present your colors.
I have red.
Blue.
On separate teams, then. And the rest?
Red. Which means...
Together again, as fate would have it.
Victory's as good as ours!
With our claimants thus paired, so too is their opposition...
Ugh, not the one-head...
Listen well, for the trial that awaits you is as follows...
Each team is to prepare a sample of traditional Xbr'aal cuisine─xibruq pibil.
And now we must cook. Another ludicrous feat.
So it might seem, but there's bound to be deeper meaning to it.
Agreed. Given that the very future of our nation is at stake, all parts of this rite must have significance.
Our Promises have grown rather promising, wouldn't you say?
Indeed. If I were to guess at the significance of the feat...
Few things reflect the history and development of a culture so clearly as its culinary traditions.
The variety of stewed dishes in Garlean cuisine bespeaks their agricultural roots and cold climes, true.
The peoples we've met on our journey─they've all had different practices involving food and drink.
The Hanuhanu replenish their magical energies with reeds, while the Pelupelu have turned their fondness of beverages into a living.
So basically, to know a people's cuisine is to know something of their ways!
With each feat, we have deepened our familiarity with a given community's history and culture...
Is this what Father intended for us all along...?
But a leader with his vision must see that the past doesn't hold the answers we need. It is through embracing innovation, not adhering to tradition, that we will usher Tuliyollal unto a more prosperous future.
The rules are simple.
The first team to prepare and partake of satisfactory xibruq pibil will be deemed victorious. You will be judged by your samples' taste and appearance, as well as your adherence to appropriate cooking techniques.
Kitchens have been made available for your use. Note that you may be asked to retry should your dish fail to pass muster.
Let the Feat of Repast begin.
I've never actually heard of xibruq pibil before. What's it like, I wonder...
I consider myself a connoisseur of all things tasty and Turali, but this is the first I've heard of xibruq pibil...
The First Promise and Bakool Ja Ja are formidable on the field, but in the kitchen? I think the odds are in our favor.
Do you suppose the First Promise and Bakool Ja Ja will wear matching aprons? I dearly hope so.
For the pairings to be thus decided, the stars align for us indeed.
As much as I would have loved to defeat you all in a high-stakes culinary battle, I couldn't have asked for better allies.
Only two claimants can receive keystones from this feat. Intimidating, perhaps, but irrelevant─we shall prevail!
The Second Promise will no doubt have thoughts on how best to proceed. Let us ask for his perspective.
How fortunate that this feat's unique stipulations have frustrated Bakool Ja Ja's attempts to delay us.
Serves him right! That's what he gets for endangering my people with his schemes!
Why doesn't he just compete fairly? He's plenty strong─and obviously has a mind for strategy, twisted though it may be.
I'll never understand him...
Putting aside our competition for the moment, allow me to express how glad I am for this opportunity to work together. As I see it, our team possesses a distinct advantage─
Heh. Of course we do! Any team I'm on is bound to succeed.
...Precisely.
You mean we have an advantage in numbers, yes?
Our competition has a team of six─the two claimants, Sareel Ja, and Bakool Ja Ja's lackeys.
Whereas we are a team of nine. That's three more people we can mobilize.
With the tasks suitably delegated, it should be a brisk affair to learn the recipe and assemble necessary ingredients.
Too easy!
Well, we mustn't be overconfident, lest we make a careless mistake that could've been easily avoided.
Our first order of business should be determining the recipe for xibruq pibil. We can hardly gather ingredients for a dish we know nothing about.
Given the nature of this feat, asking for answers directly may prove less effective than simply observing the daily habits of the Xbr'aal people.
Let us gather here once we have seen what clues this village has to offer.
You may make use of the kitchens at any time. I look forward to tasting your xibruq pibil.
I see...
And what flavor would that be?
Come with me for a moment.
That smoke...
A banana...?
