Hear... Feel... Think...
Crystal bearer...
I am Hydaelyn. All made one.
A Light there once was that shone throughout this realm...yet it hath since grown dim.
And as it hath faltered, so hath Darkness risen up in its stead, presaging an end to Life.
For the sake of all, I beseech thee: deliver us from this fate!
The power to banish the Darkness dwelleth in the Crystals of Light. Journey forth and lay claim to them.
By thy deeds shall the Crystals reveal themselves to thee.
Only believe, for the Light liveth in thy heart.
Go now, my child, and shine thy Light on all creation.
Awake again, are we?
Aha. The poor creature's fury was kindled with cruel forethought.
See this blade? I found it in the goobbue's back.
I have seen knives of this kind before─they are most commonly used for the cutting of rope.
It would appear our culprits are seafaring men of some persuasion...piratical being the most probable.
In any event, you seem much recovered from your sudden...affliction.
I confess, I was rather taken aback when you collapsed at the very moment of our victory. Mayhap a surfeit of aether...?
I beg your pardon? A “towering crystal”? I'm sure I don't─ Oh.
Well, well... This has been a day of unexpected revelations.
I must continue my investigation.
In the meantime, I suggest you deliver this knife to your patron, along with a warning concerning the pirates' probable involvement in this murky business.
The days ahead promise little rest, I fear...
May our paths cross again under the light of the Crystal.
Surname! Right glad am I to see you safely returned!
My lads were all gabbin' about hearin' what sounded like all seven hells breakin' loose near the grotto, and I feared I'd sent you to your death.
If you were in the middle of that commotion, I hope it yielded somethin' of interest. I'd hate to think you'd risked your life for naught.
Hmmm... A blade pulled from the back of a creature you slew at the cave, eh?
Aye, I'd agree that such a knife would be part of any seafarin' man's kit.
I'm startin' to think that these ruffians are pirates, come to lure my farmhands back to a life of plunder. Chances are, they didn't take kindly to your appearance on their doorstep, and set a maddened goobbue on you.
Aye, the pirates have been addin' to their numbers of late. I'd best warn the lads and lasses in my employ to be on guard against their schemes.
...Hm? You met someone else at the grotto? A woman with a strange contraption...? Ah...Y'shtola!
She's been in Limsa Lominsa for a good while now. Her studies of the aether often bring her out to Summerford, so her presence at the grotto is hardly unusual.
She's an odd-lookin' lass, I grant you, but she's not the kind to associate with kidnappers. You may take my word for that.
Where trust should be lackin' is in those yeomen of mine who have yet to wholly relinquish their pirate pasts. The temptation to return to the free and easy life of a buccaneer may prove too strong to resist.
You have my thanks, Surname. If it weren't for the efforts of stalwart adventurers like yourself, this farm would be in a far worse state than it is.
Just you keep on lendin' your talents to those in need, eh? Help bring Limsa the brighter future she deserves.
That sea-sloth Sevrin and his lot─never around when there's work to be done!
I'd sooner hire you for the sake of gettin' things done, but then the rapscallions would never learn.
Round them up and let them know that Staelwyrn would like a word... And don't take “no” for an answer!
