Ye fool. 'Twas over afore it began.
Captain...
Seems the whelps've been yappin' while their master was abed.
Listen well, all o' ye. Since the signin' o' the Galadion Accord, we all of us've been part o' the same crew─the crew o' the good ship Limsa Lominsa.
At the helm o' that ship is the Admiral, an' 'tis she who decides where we sail. Was I not clear on that point? Or did ye forget whose deck ye stand on? Nay?
Then what in the seven 'ells're ye playin' at!?
It's all we know, Captain. If we ain't pirates, what are we?
Yer bloody idiots, is what you are! Idiots with yer whole lives ahead o' ye! Ye can do anythin' ye want─be anythin' ye want!
So 'old fast to that. Let the brine-crusted 'usk that stands before ye now be the last o' them as knew naught save 'ow to steal, an' make o' yerselves a new breed o' pirate!
Lad... I made ye me right hand 'cause I saw somethin' in ye. An' I still do. Ye've the makin's of a captain. All you lack's the belief.
Well now! It seems we're of one mind after all! Apologies for the misunderstanding, Admiral. We're with ye, wherever ye be headed.
You have my thanks, Hyllfyr.
Yer choice o' duelin' pistol did not escape my notice. Good old Annihilator, ender o' many a proud pirate's voyage.
Mistbeard's vanished into legend, an' it won't be long afore I take my rest in the depths. Yet be that as it may, the old ways can only truly die when we've dealt the Empire the tellin' blow.
There'll be stormy seas ahead, no doubt...but I'm trustin' ye to steer us through to the other side.
...Though I had anticipated a duel, I did not foresee that Hyllfyr would intervene.
But full glad am I that he did. 'Twould have been a shame to kill the boy.
Instead, the whelp has learned a valuable lesson, and we have made peace amongst ourselves. All that remains is to do likewise with our neighbors.
Now, I need hardly tell you, but any attempt to negotiate with the tribes is doomed to fail unless their minds can first be wrested from the grip of their gods.
And so, in the meeting we seek to arrange with the kobolds, I would have you free their leader of Titan's influence.
Leave it to us. We will open his ears to reason.
You have my thanks.Ere we proceed, there is something you should know.
Some fifty years past, when the Sahagin swarmed at our hulls in ever greater numbers, Limsa entered into a covenant with the kobolds.
“To men shall go the bounty of the sea; to kobolds shall go the bounty of the land.” An ostensibly equitable arrangement...conspicuously lacking in detail.
Aye. Inadvertently or not, the wording was ambiguous. And we took advantage of it, moving in to claim the northern reaches of La Noscea─which the kobolds believed theirs.
Bloodshed followed. Then bloodshed to answer the bloodshed. And on and on it went, till every ilm of Vylbrand bore the stain of our conflict.
This is not history, you understand. It is the present, fresh and raw. And with their kindred's blood yet on our hands, we will struggle to regain the kobolds' trust, even should we cure their tempered.
