BOOOOOOM!
WE GO TOGETHER!
DIE DIE DIE!
Have you aught to say for yourself?For what you have done to our people─your people?
My people, he says.The precious lordling beloved by all come to confront the wicked witch.
My parents thought me no better. They worked me from dawn to dusk, like an ox or an ass or some other beast of burden. Until, that is, my brother spied a chance to transform the family fortunes.
And so I was married to a vicious old drunk who beat me as he pleased, and when I pleaded for help, I was told to grin and bear it. For the family. For him. For everyone's sake. They pretended not to notice, but they knew.They knew.
What did it matter? I was nothing to them─less than nothing! I wasn't of their flesh, I wasn't a fellow Doman, I wasn't even a person. I might just as well have been dead!
And then my husband passed away one day. And so I was sold off yet again,to pay his debts. But this time, this time, I found a way to live for myself.To survive. As a spy for the Empire.
Oh, those were the days, when the scales first fell from my eyes. No longer would I be a slave to my parents or my husband or the pleasure house.I would be free...and receive due compensation...
That would be enough, I thought...until I saw a Doman in the road, beaten and broken, and my heart...my heart skipped a beat...
Lying at my feet, groaning in agony, sobbing in despair. Powerless, helpless, hopeless! A vision forever seared into my soul...
There was nothing I would not do to feel that joy again! To bend this cruel, twisted world to my whims!...Now, having borne witness to my life's work, have you aught to say to me?
Heh heh... 'Twas kind of you to lend me your ear, my lord. But now it is time for us to conclude our little tête-à-tête with a final game of chance...
Who shall stand, and who shall fall? Let the die be cast.
This was her plan from the first─to bring the keep down on our heads!
I will remember your words.
We must flee! Order our forces to withdraw!
Go, my lord...while you still can. I cannot hold this forever.
No! We will not leave you behind!
Do your duty. Deliver Lord Hien and the others to safety. Now, forthwith!I shall manage on my own.
Gosetsu!
No...no one leaves... Not you or anyone else...
...'Tis naught this old frame cannot bear!
Go now, all of you! The day is won! And the morrow beckons!
Nay, thank you. For granting me new purpose...and a measure of peace.
Do not despair, my friend. Never before have I felt so alive.My eyes unclouded, my purpose clear. This is right.
Gosetsu...
You never failed us. Not once. You served my father faithfully, and I am a better man for your guidance.
And the Doma we build together shall be better for it too!
Be proud, my friend. Be proud.
I am, Shun. More than you know.
Hien! Hien!?
You cast the die. Gambling was never my vice.
How merciful the gods that I should find you in time...
Gosetsu!? W-We must turn back now, before it is too late!
Eyes forward, Cirina. That was his wish.
...I will deliver you to safety. The others are waiting.
...I see.
...Thank you.The occupation is ended, then. And the people must be informed of our victory.
But I will not simply give up Gosetsu for lost. Before aught else, we must needs search the ruins.
Allow me, my friends. The castle is still collapsing into the river, and could easily drag you to your deaths. I can navigate the waters easily, without fear of drowning.
Be reasonable, Brother. You know he is right.
Forename. A word, if I may.
My lord withdraws into himself, unable to turn his thoughts from the keep. He needs us now, more than ever...
My friends, I am returned. I swam as far into the ruins as I could...
And...? Did you find him?
...Nay, lady. Naught remained of the keep for me to search.
Undermined from below and shaken from above, the manner of its collapse was most unusual. If the floor beneath him gave way before the rest...it is not impossible that he could have been sent tumbling into the river.
But the water is thick with silt and debris. Despite my best efforts, I could not find him. I am sorry.
...There is naught for which you should apologize. Thank you, Soroban, for taking it upon yourself to search.
The castle is in ruins, and the people are eager to learn the fate of their nation. We leave at once.
Are you sure, my lord?
The day is won, and the morrow beckons...
It falls to us to greet it.
...I'm going down to the docks to see if I can't get one of the Confederate ships to take us to the enclave.
Mayhap we should tell the others at the House of the Fierce to gather there?
Magnai and Sadu know naught of what happened in the castle. I will go and tell them.
They fought valiantly and with honor, Cirina. I pray you tell them that as well.
You too, my friend, were instrumental in this triumph. I must insist that you be present when we bring these tidings to my people.
...You all look like shite.
The captain thought you might need a ride to the enclave. Ready to come aboard?
As you wish. They've waited twenty-five years. A few more minutes won't make a difference.
On you go, then. Sit wherever you like.
I don't know what happened in there, but it's over. You won. That's cause enough for celebration─and those people you're about to see need something to celebrate...
We brought everyone here. You are the last to arrive.
I see. Thank you. We owe the Confederacy a great debt...
I have waited twenty-five years for this moment. You owe us naught.
Look! It's Lord Hien!
Lord Hien!
It's him.
He lives! He lives!
Some few words of encouragement would not go amiss, my lord.
Um... Right! Uh, yes. O-Of course...
Ummm... Er, um...right, um, right! Off─off I go!
Forgive me. This is rather more daunting than I had anticipated.But you are right, I must be strong. Wish me luck.
Hah hah! Hearing you say that, I find my courage somehow renewed.Much obliged.
We are a sorry lot, are we not. Tired, dirty, stinking of blood and sweat and ash. A people pushed to the point of breaking.
And yet we won.
The perseverance to endure decades of oppression. The will to carry on the legacy of those we have lost. These were the bonds that held us together and gave us the strength to reclaim our home.
After twenty-five hard years, the shadow of the Empire no longer darkens these lands, and we may at last look forward to the dawning of a new day. But, my friends, it will be a day of work.
So I ask you: have you yet the strength to stand?
To rise up with me once more, here and now, and begin to rebuild our homeland?
Lord Hien!
Do-ma! Do-ma!
This will not end with Doma. We will see to that. Right, Lyse?
Right!
Indeed, this is but the beginning. The tide is turning, and it shall soon bear us back across the seas, and onward unto the next battlefield.
