How good of you to remember.
Chief of the Bureau of the Architect, in fact. Where I also answered to the name of “Hythlodaeus.”
Heh heh... I see you have been collecting stars.
I speak of those crystals. They have constellations etched upon them, yes?
High in the heavens, those stars shine their guiding light down upon the lives below. Fitting symbols for the Convocation of Fourteen, would you not agree?
As you will have gathered, each crystal bears an account of the life of a member of the Convocation as remembered by the unsundered.
Lest you worry, they aren't concepts; they are far too incomplete to be so. But they suffice for imbuing memories within sundered souls, that they might be restored to their office.
Keep them. I am sure Emet-Selch wouldn't mind.
So, how fare you of late? You are feuding with Elidibus this time, I believe?
Hm... I shall refrain from passing comment on your struggle. It is not my place to do so, long-departed as I am.
But if I may give voice to a personal desire...I would rather you lived.
If you do not, how will you keep your promise to Emet-Selch? The promise to remember?
It must weigh heavy, the burden of all those memories.
To one who has lived a life such as yours, I can well imagine how Elidibus's existence might seem hollow─how empty his single-minded pursuit of a half-forgotten cause must appear...
But know that his devotion is not without reason. Even if he himself can no longer remember what that reason is.
Well, that is quite enough talk about Elidibus. I would see if you can reunite the wayward stars.
I mentioned before that there was a member of the Convocation who opposed Zodiark's summoning and defected. One whose office was left vacant...
Defectors having been deemed unworthy of commemoration, no crystal exists for the individual in question.
...Or shouldn't exist, at any rate─and wouldn't, had a friend not created one in secret.
A crystal bearing the forgotten name of her office, along with a magick of her own conceiving─a singular incantation embodying her spirit.
Among all the offices, the Fourteenth was most unusual. For while the rest sat in Amaurot, its holder was charged with gaining an intimate knowledge of the wider world.
In the course of her duty, she traveled the length and breadth of every land, and befriended countless folk.
She encountered troubles too, of course. Matters which she could simply have referred to the Convocation. But that was not her way.
Nay, more often than not, she would call upon her comrades, and together resolve matters themselves.
Such is the magick sealed within that crystal─the magick to summon the stars to your side.
In time of greatest need, should you wish upon it with all your heart, it will surely answer your call.
And now it is where it belongs.
Oh, there is no need for thanks. But nor will I hear any complaints about it either.
After all, I cannot say whether I act of my own volition or by the will of my recreator!
I was wondering where you had disappeared to.
Is something troubling you?
...No? Very well.
I have everything. Let's hurry back to the surface.
Ahhh... Fresh air at long last. I would celebrate my return to dry land with a pot of tea─had we the luxury of time.
But we must be prepared for Elidibus. Given what we know, it is plain he will not be deterred from his course.
And nor would I, were I him. Not if it meant forsaking everything I loved.
That said, I have not forgotten how Emet-Selch sought to find common ground with us, for all our misgivings.
Ultimately, our differences were not to be bridged, of course, but one must always try. Emet-Selch understood this, and if his gesture resonated with you, perhaps you might consider reaching out to his brethren.
Though it may all be for naught, you of all people know that there is no such thing as a foregone conclusion.
Right─no more musing. We have taken far too long as it is.
Our friends await us in Eulmore, yes? Let us hurry and join them.
It appears we are fashionably late.
Come. Our tale will not wait.
Forgive us our lateness.
Master Chai, my congratulations on your appointment. By all accounts, you are a capable mayor.
Oh, I have capable friends, my lady. I must say, it's good to see you looking hale and whole again.
The credit for that lies with my own capable friend, without whom I might never have escaped my abductor.
A primal... I suppose that would explain why Elidibus has been fostering faith in the Warrior of Light.
While you were enjoying your audience with the wandering heart of Zodiark, we were busy dispatching the last of the black-masked Ascians. A task which proved almost insultingly easy.
Formidable though we undoubtedly are, they were obviously sent to provide encouragement for budding heroes. One cannot help but wonder how many times the ploy has been used before...
Master Chai, you mentioned that the people of Kholusia are similarly enamored of the Warrior of Light.
Indeed. Though it's hardly surprising given the state of the world. Many are still struggling to find a purpose, and it's only natural that they should take comfort in the tales.
Then the fever has spread to every corner of Norvrandt.
We may have dealt with his black-masked minions, but it is plain Elidibus has yet to show his hand.
Oh my, what a spectacular sky!
Another starshower...
Wait, is that...
...Amaurot?
Hear... Feel... Think...
