...May I?
You, I think, are from a time beyond ours. Have you followed in the wake of Emet-Selch?
Nay, there is no cause for alarm. I am simply a shade. Here and not here.
I know only that my name is Hythlodaeus, and that this city is a recreation─a phantom moment plucked from the well of history.
These others seem unaware of their pale existence, but I wonder if Emet-Selch's mind was distracted when it came to my reconstitution.
A stray thought would have been enough. “Hythlodaeus will realize the truth,” for example. We were...close friends once, you see...
Yet in spite of my perception, I play the same role as all the rest─a bit part, meant to bring color and noise to this well-crafted stage. Too much scrutiny, and we shall burst like the fragile bubbles we are.
Thus I tell you again: my presence is naught to concern you. I wish only to share your company whilst we wait.
...If you've come this far, then you know of the catastrophe which awaits us on our “morrow.”
The Final Days. What began as isolated incidents soon swelled into a world-spanning threat...
The Convocation of Fourteen─well, it was Thirteen at the time─endeavored to create a will for our star. They would repair the fundamental laws of order and halt the spread of destruction.
But creation on such a scale required an immense source of power...
Of those of us who still lived, nearly half offered up their lives in the name of salvation.
And from their sacrifice, Zodiark was born. Just as we had hoped, He reached forth and halted the march of oblivion.
...Yet oh how the star had suffered. So many species lost. The land was blighted, the waters poisoned, and even the wind had ceased to blow.
Once more did our people give of themselves to Zodiark. Another half of our race sacrificed to cleanse the world; to ensure that trees and grasses and myriad tiny lives would sprout and grow and flourish.
The cycle of life had begun anew, and we reconsidered the means by which we might protect it.
The Convocation decided thus: we would nurture our world until it was bursting with vitality. Then, when the time was right, we would offer some portion of its living energy to Zodiark...
In return, He would restore to us those brethren whose souls had fed His strength, and together we would resume our role as stewards.
There were, however, those who disagreed with this plan. They argued that enough had been sacrificed to Zodiark─that this new world should belong to the lives newly born.
These dissidents surrendered their life energies in the creation of Hydaelyn, an incarnation of their opposing belief. And for the first time in history, our people stood divided... Know you, then, how this conflict ended?
...Hm, I thought you might.
Emet-Selch has ever been a champion for the will of Zodiark.
The original plan may have been set back by millennia, but he will have not abandoned his course. He will pay the price for our return by whatever means is necessary.
And though he may carry himself with a certain glib ease, Emet-Selch is not a man to bear his burdens lightly. In fact, I imagine they have only grown heavier with every passing century...
...'Tis truly a terrible weight he has chosen to carry.
Forename Surname...
It seems your turn has come. Pray do not let me keep you.
...Ah, there was one last thing. You walk with another at your side, yes?
Nay, I see no definite form...just the faintest suggestion of a second soul. I doubt it visible to anyone but me.
Otherwise, I assume only you can see and hear this ethereal companion?
Hm hm hm... Your connection is hardly a coincidence. In our time, the two of you were one─the color of your souls tells the tale.
A hue that distinctive cannot be mistaken, no matter how thin the soul is spread.
Hah! This is just the kind of fate I might expect for one such as she. Surely Emet-Selch has recognized the hint of “her” in you...?
Forename Surname...?
Fare you well, my new old friend. May you find what it is you seek.
...Your visitor's writ, as requested.
When you wish to gain admittance to the Capitol, simply present the document to the attendant within.
Finally! You were gone so long, I was on the verge of mounting a rescue party. How fared you in your bureaucratic ventures?
Ah, I see my instincts were correct!
And a good thing, too. Urianger and I weighed our chances of breaking into the Capitol, and an official entrance is by far the more attractive option.
The Capitol boasteth not a single armed sentry. 'Twould seem that in their time, they did not deem it needful to post guards.
The windows and doors, however, appear heavily warded. Though mightily did we strive, with strength mundane and magical, we failed to budge them even a fraction of one ilm. Mayhap 'twas simply the case that Emet-Selch's recreation did not extend to their usual function.
We didn't try everything, of course, but we thought it best to conserve our time and energy for more pressing matters.
...Speaking of which, Ryne and I tried asking about a cure for you.
The problem is, these ancients didn't exist beyond Amaurot's “today.” They will happily tell their own tales, but whenever we attempted to explain our situation, the conversation quickly became muddled...
What of you, Forename? Was aught worthy of interest said during your efforts to obtain a writ?
A great sacrifice of life in exchange for their brethren's resurrection... And you say all the Ascians' scheming has been leading to this!?
All this time... But if they still mean to enact this plan, then things won't end with the Rejoining...
...Aye, I thought we knew their intentions in full: restore the world to its former glory, and, in turn, empower Zodiark to reclaim His throne as the will of the star.
Yet that was merely a step along the way. I hesitate to put it into words, but we have to assume that following the final Rejoining, the Ascians mean to draw on the lives of the Source to make their sacrifice to Zodiark.
That does seem the most likely scenario. Mayhap those who ally with the Ascians would be spared that fate...
But what value is there in surviving when all our history, all our struggles will be erased? I cannot conscience such an act.
Of course not. And that's to say naught of what Emet-Selch plans for the Exarch's power. Do we stand by and let him threaten our future as well as our past?
We need to find him, Forename. And when we do...
Make your mark. Change the course of history in a way that's felt by those who came before, and those who came after; by everyone you've ever met.
Change things so that even my other self, dying somewhere in that future Calamity will smile and say, “I knew you would win.”
...Is fighting Emet-Selch the only way?
He created an entire city. It will take everything we have to defeat him...if we even can.
And if you push that hard in your current state, the Light will break free...
The decision to press on lies with you. Just as it lies with each and every one of us...
Do you remember that talk we had atop the tower in Mord Souq?
I'm still of the same mind now as I was then. I don't abandon you, you don't abandon me, and together we make a difference in this fight.
There's always hope if we look for it─I saw it again and again as you tore those veils of Light from the sky.
If we keep taking that next step forward, there's a chance we'll find a way to save you. So no matter how long it takes or how much it hurts, you can count on me to keep on walking.
Vauthry spoke of the disaster we would bring upon our own heads. The ceaseless conflict...
Imagine how he would sneer to see what's become of the First, not to mention your perilous predicament.
And yet who can deny the fire your deeds have ignited in people's hearts?
You achieved what my logic and ideals never could: uniting disparate peoples under the banner of hope and common purpose. Without you, that giant Talos would never have raised its head.
I have borne witness to many such miracles at your side, and would do so again. This is but another obstacle in the road.
So come, let us travel it. Drag me through wonder and danger, as you are wont to do, and I shall endeavor not to slow you down.
As well thou knowest, if we are to usher Emet-Selch unto his rest, we must needs bind his Ascian soul...and then shatter it with overwhelming force.
The former task requireth auracite, and such have I prepared─upon the Exarch's asking, no less, though 'twas ever mine intent to provide said boon.
The future whence our noble friend doth hail is a world fallen to Ascian artifice, and he would not see such grim history repeated.
In a sense, Emet-Selch's destruction will be the culmination of the Exarch's efforts─a reward for all he hath endured these many years.
Yet even as thou stridest into the jaws of peril, forget not but that his fondest wish─and that of many others, besides─is to see thee survive unto the morrow.
'Tis in pursuit of that happiest of outcomes that I do pledge to remain at thy side.
Our time in the First has been a never-ending succession of trials, as arduous as our path in the Source ever was.
Yet through all our journeys together─through that deep and foreboding wood─you have helped me to stay true to my convictions.
Thus would I return the favor. Do as your heart decrees, without hesitation or regret. And that is all I will say on the matter.
Well, this has put everyone in a solemn mood, hasn't it? Honestly, we're not even sure this will be the end of it.
But I suppose we should speak our minds when we have the opportunity. You taught me that much in Amh Araeng.
So forgive me this moment of sentiment, Forename. By dragging me into this sorry mess, you've given me the chance to think and act as I should have. For Ryne's sake.
Words cannot express how much this has changed my life, or how grateful I am for your support...
...So I shall express my gratitude through action instead. No matter where you decide to go, I will be there, guarding your back.
When Minfilia entrusted me with her power, she warned me that no matter how strong you become, you can still fall victim to despair; you can still feel powerless.
And she was right. After you collapsed on Mt. Gulg, my hands wouldn't stop shaking...
If I made a mistake, if I failed to bind the Light within you... I was terrified you would die.
Even now, you could be moments from turning, and I wouldn't know how to save you!
You, Thancred, the others, you've all been there when I needed help. Minfilia surrendered her life to me─her legacy.
I should be ready to do the same for you! And I want to, I do! But I just...
...I'm not good enough.
She told me to follow your example, and I've tried, I've really tried... <sob>
I shouldn't...?
But the Light, it─ You'll─ How can you go on?
...
I'm not sure I—
...Actually, never mind. I think I'll understand better if I try it for myself.
...
I'm not sure who you—
...Actually, never mind. I think the answer might be different for all of us.
...I see. If I'm to become what I wish to become, then there are some answers I need to work out for myself.
No, nothing will come of brooding here in self-pity. I've made my decision, Forename─I'm going with you!
