Is it true? Will all that really happen?
Calm yourselves. The time is come to speak of the Forum's most sacred duties. But first...
Give voice to the voiceless. Let bindings be unbound. By unanimous decree, I declare the enchantment broken!
Master Leveilleur, if you would.
Very well...
Two hundred and seventy years ago, our forebears began an expedition in the Dravanian hinterlands, in search of a route to access the aetherial sea.
This much is public knowledge. Their findings, however, would become the Forum's most closely guarded secret.
What those researchers discovered in the hinterlands was not a passage unto the aetherial sea, but the very heart of our star─and Hydaelyn Herself.
She spoke to them of a calamity that would extinguish all life, and of a means by which we might be spared.
The moon. 'Tis in truth a gargantuan vessel built to serve as sanctuary for Her children and deliver them from this doom.
Much like Nyunkrepf's Hope in ages past, it will bear the people of a world in the throes of death to a new home.
Needless to say, this would be no small undertaking. To facilitate the great work, the Forum has maintained close contact with the servants of Hydaelyn who presently reside on the moon.
Convinced that the foretold end was all but inevitable, we began amassing a wealth of knowledge. Not merely for the betterment of our nation, but in preparation for the journey to come.
You reveal this to us now? By the gods, how long do we have!?
While we cannot say with certainty, we believe the hour to be nigh. We received a transmission from the moon suggesting as much not long ago.
Which is why we must in earnest begin preparations for the great exodus.
For his impressive contributions and the leadership he demonstrated during our withdrawal from Dravania, we have elected Master Leveilleur to oversee this initiative.
Fellow scribes and scholars. My countrymen. We face a threat of unprecedented scale.
We must challenge the trials before us with composure and conviction if we are to find salvation.
The wisdom of Sharlayan has ever been a shining beacon in the darkness, and so it shall continue to be.
It is our solemn charge to see our heritage preserved for future generations. For those who will come after, we will brave a new frontier.
Administrative edicts will be relayed to all major institutions ere long. In the meantime, carry on with your duties. With that, I hereby call this assembly to a close.
Do you remember what Mother told us when we visited home?
That it wasn't until after we were born that Father seemed to lose himself in his work.
If that great work of his was the evacuation of this star, then...
Yes... It wasn't for his benefit...
Would you mind waiting here a moment? I wish to speak with Father before we leave.
Thank you. I shan't be long.
I may look daggers at him, but I will neither speak nor draw them,
If it's all the same to you, I have a few choice words to share with Father as well.
So. Come to call us cowards and bid us join your fruitless battle against the inevitable?
Nay, we do not object to the Forum's proposal. On the contrary, those who wish to flee have every right to do so.
Urianger is cooperating with your associates on the moon to ensure that all is ready should evacuation be our only recourse.
Then whatever your business, I suggest you be brief.
Though we cannot boast the boundless wisdom of Sharlayan, we have firsthand knowledge of foreign cultures, and have conversed with no small number of peoples.
These experiences have taught us fundamental truths that cannot be recorded in any tome, nor charted on any map.
The beating heart of this planet is its people, many of whom would give anything─even their lives─to protect the lands they love.
Many may choose to join you in the end. But what of those unwilling or unable, for whom escape will never be an option? What would you have them do?
To ignore the plight of those one might conceivably save is not wisdom, Father. It is indolence.
This is why we choose to fight.
We'll not ask for your understanding, Father. Only that you don't turn a blind eye to the good we have done. That we can still do.
We're not children in need of protection. Hold fast to your principles and let the world burn, if it please, but we believe there is still another way.
And if there is, we will find it. You see if we don't.
Do as you will. Just stay out of our way.
Were he not so consumed with self-righteousness, he might tell you how proud he is of you both.
Bold words call for bold action. And there'll be no turning to your father should plans go awry.
As if I ever would. So long as there are those who wish to stay and fight for this star, we have to do what we can to help them.
And if we're to do that, we'll need to be well rested.
Wouldn't you agree? Having triumphed over what we once thought to be the source of all evil, I can think of no one in greater need of at least a dozen winks.
Shall we, then? To the annex, to prepare for tomorrow!
Krile tells me the Forum made a rather momentous announcement. So there's to be a great exodus, is there?
I'm reminded of my narrow escape from the Isle of Val. The realization, the running, the mixture of relief and regret after. “Why me?” I asked myself. “Why me?”
Why us? Why now? Why wonder─there's no use fretting over the cosmic morality or lack thereof. We're here, and we'll get through this together. And who knows, maybe my luck will rub off and grant everyone a narrow escape. There's no harm in praying for as much.
Oh, but enough of my rambling─I'm sure you're exhausted. Your chamber awaits!
Oh, but enough of my rambling─I'm sure you're exhausted. Your chamber awaits!
Ah. I hope I didn't wake you.
I pray you will forgive the unannounced visit, but I wished to speak with you before retiring for the night...
...About Garlemald, and the time we spent with the people of Tertium.
Dangerous though it was, I'm glad we had the opportunity to treat with Jullus and Quintus.
I was worried what might happen after we were collared. If they attempted to restrain you too. If they succeeded...
Once more I put you in harm's way. And for that I must apologize...
Or rather...I should thank you. For trusting in me, time and time again.
After all our journeys together, I daresay I've used every expression imaginable to convey to you my gratitude. Nevertheless, I hope these words of mine still carry some small weight.
Tomorrow our fight continues. Mayhap it would have been better to seek you out after we have true cause for celebration...
But having mustered the courage to stand up to Father and achieve a personal victory of sorts, I wanted to carry on in that spirit before my nerves got the better of me.
The hour grows late, and you doubtless tire of my ramblings.
I have a letter for Arenvald to finish, but will be off to bed shortly. Sleep well.
Craving a midnight snack, were you? I did consider bringing a few sweets, but decided this wasn't an appropriate occasion.
I couldn't sleep. Had a few things on my mind. I know it's late, so I'll try not to talk your ear off...
It's Zenos. I keep thinking back to Garlemald, when he'd taken control of your body.
An altogether terrifying experience, to say the least. And one that served as a harsh reminder.
No one─no matter how strong or quick or clever─is invincible. Not even you.
And as much as it might seem at times that you are...one misstep. One mistake...and that's that.
Which is why, even though I know you've heard it a thousand times before, I'm going to tell you to take better care of yourself. Because you really, really should.
It goes without saying that we're all committed to this fight, but that doesn't mean that we need to throw our lives away. You know how I feel about noble sacrifices.
Right─that's settled! We'll be keeping the acts of gratuitous bravado to a minimum.
When I looked Father in the eye and swore we'd find a way to avert this tragedy...
It wasn't a promise just for him. It was a promise for you, too.
Evening. I hoped you hadn't crawled beneath the covers just yet.
If you'll indulge me for a moment, I have a favor to ask.
Don't worry. Nothing desperate or dire, if that's what you were wondering. Not yet.
You know, we may have quite literally entered our final days. The ancients went so far as to call it that for a reason.
If so, then everything we did for Ryne, for the First...will have been meaningless. And I can't accept that. I just can't.
My mind won't allow for the possibility...and that could be a problem. When we're in the thick of it, I don't know if I've got it in me to be pragmatic this time. To run...even if running's the right choice. The only choice.
So if you see me turning a blind eye to the harsh reality...beat some sense into me, would you?
I trust you and the other Scions with my life, and I'd like to think the feeling is at least occasionally mutual.
And I'd never forgive myself if my stubbornness put them in danger.
Gods, listen to me. I'm beginning to sound like the father I never had.
So, can I count on you to keep me in line? I can think of no one else more eminently qualified.
Excellent!
Now I can breathe a bit easier. Which isn't to say that I will, given what we're up against.
Let's keep this little chat our secret. I'd rather not have anyone scolding us for burning the midnight oil.
You're still awake. Good.
Might I trouble you to stand still for a moment?
Hmmm. Nothing appears out of the ordinary.
A precautionary measure. You will recall that serving as a vessel for abundant Light in the First very nearly ended poorly.
In your recent battle on the moon, you were almost certainly exposed to similar, if not greater forces. Fortunately, from what I can see, you and your aether are none the worse for wear.
Would that Ryne were here to confirm my assessment...
To think you actually found yourself in a direct confrontation with Zodiark...
As if Zenos gallivanting about in your body was not misfortune enough. Did you so grossly offend every single deity in a past life that they saw fit to place a curse upon your soul?
Forgive me, that was in poor taste. I recall vividly how battered and broken it was in the depths of Amaurot.
Would that you could have seen it with your own eyes. Mayhap then you would understand why the greater part of me is glad you did not. It was...a horror beyond description.
Promise me you will be careful. That you will seek my counsel if you feel unwell.
That puts my heart at ease, if only a touch. I suspect it will grow colder as the night wears on, so do be sure to stay warm.
Sleep well, and may the shadows keep you.
Oh, apologies. I-I didn't mean to... Ahem. If you could spare a moment before bed...
Thank you. I fear this may be the last quiet night we have to talk for quite some time.
I am...troubled, of late. Unwarranted concerns, perhaps. I hope. Nevertheless, I feel compelled to share them with you.
Though you have bested your enemies thus far─Zenos, and even Zodiark─your victories have come at a considerable cost to yourself.
No one is without their limits─and you are no exception. I worry the added weight of the Final Days will prove more than you can bear.
It is surely too much for any one woman...
But you needn't bear it alone. Let me share your burden.
My, um...carrying capacity pales in comparison to yours, but I could still help. Shoulder the occasional satchel from your ever-growing mountain of, um...baggage.
You have already done so much to help relieve me of mine own encumbrances. 'Tis only fair that I repay you in kind.
Of course, it needn't be only troubles we share.
Moments of joy may seem few and far between now, but there will come a time when we look back fondly on this journey.
The inquiry at the Forum, our march through the snows of Garlemald, our impromptu dinner in this very room─all of it.
And that is to say nothing of the journeys yet to come. To the ends of the world and beyond!
Ahem. But tomorrow will be no less busy than today, and I have kept you from your rest long enough.
Sleep well, my friend.
You're alone... Good.
The twins thought now would be a wonderful time to pay a visit to my chambers. Rather than listen to them bicker over tonight's snacks and tomorrow's plans, I seized the first opportunity to make my escape.
To their credit, they decided against intruding on your peace and quiet.
It can all be a bit...exhausting at times, can't it?
I wasn't sure what to make of you at first. During the Dragonsong War, how quick you were to take up a cause not your own. But I came to see that is simply the way of you and yours.
I will not pretend to understand this talk of ancient primals and the Final Days.
But I trust in your judgment and choose to believe in your cause. You and Alphinaud have my lance. Now and always.
You will need it, wrack and ruin looming on the horizon. Calamity bearing down upon us.
There's no place I'd rather be than here. Standing shoulder to shoulder with friends on the front line.
So do not hesitate to send me against your enemies. I'll make them rue the day they met me.
Now, if you'll excuse me. I could do with a little air.
If Alphinaud asks... I was never here.
Until the morrow.
Until the morrow.
