Hello there! Would you care for our famous gold star ice cream?
Heh, so you're here too. Everyone I spoke with recommended gold star ice cream.
Those colorful balls stacked on top of each other─that'd be the ice cream, I take it?
I can see the appeal, but it's going to be hard to deliver it intact. We need three servings, so let's get G'raha to help carry one.
You mean you can do it alone!?
Well, there do seem to be vessels for carrying three... Are you sure about this?
Great. They're definitely safer in your hands than in mine.
I'll go and tell G'raha everything's taken care of. See you back at the springs!
Hello there! Would you care for our famous gold star ice cream?
Alright, three servings coming right up!
Here you are! You'll want to be quick so it doesn't melt, but also careful so it doesn't collapse. Good luck, and enjoy!
Oh dear, the ice cream has collapsed, has it? Not to worry, I'll fix it for you!
Goodness me, what an amazing-looking treat! Thank you so much, Forename!
Never did we imagine that such a reward awaited us. Isn't that so, Robor?
Uh...y-yes.
Oh, don't mind your father. Like me, he's still getting used to seeing you all grown up.
This is just excruciating...
Yes, well. A twenty-year blank is not so quickly filled.
Even so... There's got to be something we can do...
You know, I think I might have an idea.
Raha...?
<chomp> <chomp>
What is he doing...?
Hehe... Hehehe! <chomp>
Y-You needn't force yourself...
It doesn't taste of anything to the living, surely?
No, no. It's delicious.
I mean it. I've never tasted anything so good.
Hehe!
<chomp>
<chomp>
It really does taste so much better when we're all together.
Yes, indeed.
I'm suddenly craving dessert. How about you?
Truly, we've never felt so happy in all our lives. We don't know how to thank you.
But at the very least, we can give you some answers. You've risked so much and come so far for them, after all.
'Tis our understanding you were researching a power called interdimensional fusion. Will you tell us about it?
To begin at the very beginning, there is a legend passed down by our people, the Milalla.
In the distant past, we abided in a different world. Our homeland was a paradise of eternal summer. The flowers were always in bloom.
Until, that is, a great calamity turned the very seas to ice. As those around them froze to death, our ancestors looked to a mighty relic for salvation. By its power they opened a portal, and used it to flee to another reality.
The key is none other than that relic, and it has been in the safekeeping of our people since time immemorial.
Yes. When lightning threatened this world, we attempted to use the key to flee again like our ancestors once did.
Alas, no matter what we tried, we couldn't invoke its power. We had all but given up when Preservation approached us with an offer of partnership.
Desperate as we were, we accepted their help...only to later discover their ulterior motive: to plunder other worlds of aether.
Seeking to frustrate their plans, we defected from the order. And as their agents closed in on us, we seized control of the prototype gate and activated it.
What followed, you already know. We sent our daughter and the key through the portal, entrusting them to the men we encountered.
You were born with an unusual gift, you see. Upon learning of it, Preservation sought to subject you to experiments.
An unusual gift... The Echo, I daresay.
Our people, the Milalla. Are there any ways I might learn more about them?
There are─such as visiting the cavern inside the volcano. Our ancient homeland has been recreated there.
While it's intended to serve as an entertaining diversion, it ought to teach you a thing or two about our history and traditions.
May we go there? Selfish though it may be, I should love to learn of my ancestors.
Of them...and of the legacy my parents entrusted to me.
Sure, by all means. As it happens, it's on the way to our destination.
You've gone through much trouble for us.
You all have good hearts. Our daughter is fortunate to have friends like you.
That went really well! And you, Forename─your sense of balance is something else!
Though it had no taste, the ice cream was a treat for the eyes. I'm glad it served to ease the tension.
Forename, Raha, Lamaty'i...
With your help, I was able to not only bond with my parents, but know the joy of sharing a meal with them besides.
For that, and so much else, I thank you.
As my parents told us, the cavern inside the volcano is a place for learning about the Milalla's ancient homeland.
But I'm hoping it will yield other information as well.
Namely, information on Preservation.
Preservation... The scientists who were researching interdimensional fusion.
And prior to that, created the Endless.
As Living Memory is likely also their creation, I expect they would carefully curate any details concerning themselves, but I wish to keep an eye out nonetheless.
I'm all for it, of course. Seeing as the key once belonged to the Milalla, it couldn't hurt to learn about them.
Right then, let's head inside!
So this is how it is in here!
This place has the look of an ancient ruin, but I suppose it's an illusion as well.
These panels contain information about the Milalla. It's very much like a museum.
These panels contain information about the Milalla. It's very much like a museum.
