Aye, I'm the shipwright─er, apprentice shipwright. Did you find anything that might need attention?
The section I inspected seemed solid enough.
...On the port side, near the bow, you say? All right, I'll have a look and see what I can do.
My apologies, I seem to have lagged behind. I could float in that gentle sea all day...Otherwise, I am happy to report no visible cracking or holes in my section of the hull.
You─ Y-You─ You're Lord Hien! The captain sent you to inspect the hull!? Kami have mercy... Forgive us this discourtesy, my lord!
Hah! 'Tis quite all right. In fact, I rather enjoyed it. I take it you are of Doma?
Y-Yes, my lord. The imperials took my father away after the uprising, and I had nowhere else to turn. The Confederacy became my family.
But someone told me they're releasing the conscripts now. Maybe my father will be among them. Not that I can go back─there's no leaving once you've joined...
How fares our lady? Is she seaworthy?
Captain! W-We've found a small crack in the port side, but I'll have it fixed before you know it!
I see you have met the boy. Did he tell you his story? He babbles when he is nervous.
Should his father be among the conscripts, as he hopes, I mean to give him the choice to leave this life. If he so chooses, I expect you to see they are provided for.
I have heard that those who join the Confederacy forswear all ties with kin and homeland. Is that oath so easily put aside?
If I allow it....I see in him the lad I was twenty-five years ago. You say the words, you mean them, but the yearning for home still lingers.
My family is long dead, and I know this life is my lot. But he has scarce dipped his toes with us. If there is a life for him in Doma, he should have the chance to live it.
Well said. The Empire's conquest has uprooted many and more. Be it in Yanxia or out on the Ruby Sea, we have a duty to ensure that Ihanashi and others like him are free to dwell where they desire.
Then the matter is settled. I will make preparations to cast off.
Well, my friends, it seems we have our ship. Let us return to the enclave.
Lord Hien is expecting you. May I show you in?
It seems Yugiri and Alphinaud completed their task before us. They have been waiting.
We scouted the structure and determined the swiftest path to safety. In the event of hostilities, we will lead the conscripts outside with all possible haste.
From there, the Confederacy has pledged a ship to ferry us across the One River. Now we have but to attend the exchange, and pray to the kami these precautions were unnecessary.
While we were putting our contingency plans in place, I left Hakuro in charge of organizing transport for the imperial prisoners.
He will see they arrive at the appointed hour, leaving us free to rendezvous with our Confederate allies. Come, they await us on the riverbank not far from the castrum.
