Praise be to the elementals─I cannot express how happy I am to see an adventurer with a truly gentle heart. The sylphs of Little Solace are sorely in need of aid. Pray hear me out.
Being a temporary settlement, Little Solace wants for amenities, not least a stout set of defenses. Consequently, beasts from malms around are free to wander in and terrorize the hapless residents.
The ziz gorlins and gall gnats that roam these parts are especially troublesome, but slaying one of each should serve as a warning to the rest.
Furthermore, perhaps you could gather three brownie brushes as well. They play an important role in sylphic culture─I do not claim to know the details─and what with such feral beasts prowling the forests, they are not easily come by.
When you are done with the deeds, seek out Komuxio. He is slow to warm to outsiders, but your good intentions will not be lost on him. My own experience speaks to this.
Dancing one is still here? Dancing one can dance all day—this one's trust is not so easily earned.
Hm? Dancing one brings brownie brushes for this one? This one can dye thread once more. This one is pleased.
Dancing one kills bitey, buzzy one? This one hates, hates, hates bitey, buzzy ones! Dancing one is kind... Too kind.
Many walking ones come to these ones' abode, but few are friendly like dancing one. Perhaps this one was wrong not to trust dancing one, after all.
This one asks dancing one for forgiveness. These ones have many troubles since walking ones last came to our abode. This one must be careful. Always careful.
But dancing one is not like other walking ones. This one can trust dancing one. This one would ask dancing one for help.
Strange walking ones with bodies of steel come to the home of these ones. This one thinks steel ones come from Empire.
Where Empire goes, many living ones become dead ones. Trees fall and bushes burn. These ones' home is in danger. Danger!
This one begs of dancing one to help this one know more. Dancing one is friends with these ones and walking ones, yes? Dancing one must speak to these ones here and walking ones in hut-house and find out more.
This one has bad feeling. This one fears steel ones are after something. But this one should speak no more. Go, dancing one. This one depends on kindness of dancing one.
