Have I seen a masked man wearing a dark robe? No, I haven't, nor do I wish to. Business is bad enough without shady characters lurking about.
Folk have been giving Highbridge a wide berth because of all the Qiqirn raids. None but the most devout of pilgrims are willing to come here anymore.
Judging by your expression, I take it you didn't learn much of use.
Look, I'm sorry for my rudeness earlier. It's just that things are tough for us merchants at the moment. The Qiqirn raids are so constant, so organized, we're beginning to suspect that someone is orchestrating it all.
I tend to put my own welfare first, like most of us do, but that doesn't mean I'm a bad person. I promise to keep an eye out for your masked man. If I see or hear anything, you'll be the first to know.
I've finally got some honest-to-gods information on your masked man! Why so confident? Because I saw him with my own two eyes!
I was out for an evening stroll, minding my own business, when I noticed a column of smoke rising from a cliff over at Thal's Respite. Curious, I took myself there to find a masked man─your masked man, I'm sure of it─standing by a fire.
As if in answer, some Qiqirn appeared soon after, and the group began talking at length. I'm afraid I was too far out of earshot to hear much of anything.
After the group had dispersed, an idea came to me: if you were to use this smoldering coal to start a fire, you might be able to arrange a similar meeting. It will be dangerous, I shouldn't doubt, but you've proven yourself more than a match for a pack of rats.
So, what do you think? That's some sound, reliable information, even if I do say so myself. Well worth all the lingering about you've been doing, wouldn't you say?
Back so soon? Were you able to find any clues leading to your masked man?
<gasp> Th-This scroll! It bears a prayer to Rhalgr, the Destroyer!
In case you're unfamiliar, Rhalgr is the guardian deity of Ala Mhigo, which is currently under Garlean rule.
It's highly uncommon for folk of other nations to revere Him. I'd wager my last gil that your assailant was Ala Mhigan.
It seems this masked man of yours is very well connected. I must confess, the merchant in me envies such a diverse network of contacts.
That selfsame merchant also senses danger ahead...and darkness besides. Are you certain you'd rather not take things nice and slow here at Highbridge?
The Ala Mhigan bandit you had a run-in with is somehow connected to your masked man of mystery.
So, it stands to reason that if you want to pick up the trail again, you should head toward Little Ala Mhigo, over in southern Thanalan.
Just so you know what to expect, the settlement is the favored destination for those refugees who couldn't...well, adapt to life in Ul'dah.
The hearts of the denizens are said to be as barren as the wasteland they live in. And for all intents and purposes, it's a lawless place. Be prepared for a not-so-warm welcome.
Now, I'm not certain how much a help she will be, but it just so happens I have a daughter who has, er...relocated to Little Ala Mhigo. Her name is Hihira, and it shouldn't hurt to seek her out first.
And while you have her attention...I'd be obliged if you could send my love. Not a day goes by that I don't think of her.
I suppose this is it, then! I had hoped that you would linger here a while─cull some fiends, spend some coin, what have you─but something tells me you're destined for greater things. Wherever it is you end up, I wish you the best!
