Understood. Return to area twelve. Damn it all...where is that accursed eikon hiding?
No sign of our wizened friend?
I'm afraid not, my lord. Shall I order that the search perimeter be expanded?
Absolutely not. We risk alerting the Gridanians to our presence. His Excellency bid us avoid unnecessary confrontation.
Loath though I am to admit it, I have found no evidence to suggest that Ramuh will be gracing the mortal realm in the near future.
I ask you...what good is a god who does not grant one's wishes? Were I a sylph, I should strongly consider finding myself another idol.
Which reminds me─what of the sylphs we captured? A handful of them seemed to be in reasonably good health when last I looked.
Ah. A-Apologies, my lord. I fear we may have been...overzealous in our efforts to compel them to summon their eikon.
<sigh> ...Really, Centurion─were you not aware that vegetables bruise easily? It is well that I did not entrust you with the important task of making my dinner.
Well, mayhap it was a kindness. Better dead in truth than dead to one's own god, I suppose...if you believe in such things.
Dawn is upon us. Make ready to withdraw.
Hmph, useless...
We are so close to completion, I can fair taste it, but at this rate...
No, I must be patient. Our efforts will bear fruit in due time.
...What was it you always said? Ah, yes: “Though it mean bringing down the very heavens, who shall challenge the limits of possibility if not we?” In that alone were you right...Garlond.
But your star is long fallen, while mine doth begin to rise.
And it shall burn so bright─so bright that Lord van Baelsar's ultimate weapon will seem a mere candle beside it! Ahahahaha!
Those walking ones did for Noxia! This one is certain of it!
This one fears that other taken ones also suffered the same fate...
This one is convinced! Walking ones have black hearts, seek only to harm these ones! Walking ones are not to be trusted!
Now, now, Noraxia...do not pass judgment too hastily. Not all walking ones are alike. Though there are evil ones among the walking ones, there are good ones also.
Hm? Does walking one feel unwell?
This one would know, what brings walking one to this place?
Came to this one's rescue at Noraxia's bidding? Then this one owes walking one a debt of gratitude!
Hm? Walking one has questions about Lord Ramuh? Then this one will provide answers.
But first, let these ones quit this lightless place.
This one will return to Little Solace. When walking one is ready, please come and see this one. These ones may speak properly then.
Then it is settled! Let this one accompany walking one outside!
Ah, you're back! Tell me the sylph elder is well!
...Thank the gods for that! I don't rightly know what to make of the rest of your tale, but I'm full glad Frixio didn't come to any harm.
Ah, but there I go tempting fate. Run over to Little Solace and secure us peace with the sylphs before aught else befalls us, eh? Rest assured, I'll send word to our friends of Sharlayan and the Twin Adder both.
You've done Gridania a great service this day, lass─and earned yourself a place of honor here at the Druthers in so doing. Be sure and come by whenever you feel like a drop of Qiqirn firewater!
Say, friend, there's something I'd like to ask you to see delivered to the sylphs of Little Solace─this Azeyma rose oil.
It's a gift to celebrate the safe return of their tribe's elder─and a token of Gridania's desire to unite.
The wood is not what it once was. The Calamity changed the elementals─weakened them. Until their strength is returned, we must lend them ours to keep the wood safe. But ours alone will not be enough. We must have the strength of the sylphs, as well.
Only by working together and fighting together will we survive together─and the Twelveswood with us. The gift I ask you to bear is a symbol of the hope that both Gridanian and sylph alike will live to see the light beyond this darkness.
A gift from walking one Buscarron? A gift for these ones?
Such a lovely scent! This one has never smelled anything like this before!
Walking one Buscarron and adventuring one are very kind. Know that this one is deeply grateful.
Many walking ones are scary. Many walking ones utter many lies and much deception. But this one is moved. Let all these ones be friends forever!
This one has been expecting walking one! This one fetches elder one!
This one is pleased to see walking one again. Welcome to the home of these ones.
Ah, there you are, Forename. We have just been hearing tell of your deeds of derring-do. Well done!
Ah, the walking ones who aided Noraxia! This one is grateful!
A pleasure to have been of service. If you do not mind my asking, how did your misadventure come about?
This one does not mind. The misadventures, as walking one calls them, of this one began when imperial ones entered the wood. Fearing trouble, these ones decided to watch imperial ones closely.
But these ones watched too closely, and imperial ones noticed and tried to catch these ones.
Having nowhere else to hide, this one fled into Toto-Rak. Would that this one had not. In Toto-Rak, a sinister one robed in black tried to feed this one to a many-legged one!
A sinister one robed in black...? Why do I have the feeling I should be more worried about that than I am?
Elder Frixio, we come to you as emissaries of the nation of Gridania. This missive bears the words of the Elder Seedseer.
This one sees... So walking ones of Gridania are fearful of Lord Ramuh.
Plainly put, yes. Your people summoned the Lord of Levin but once, yet that single occurrence occasioned great alarm.
But it's not as if the Gridanians dislike you or anything. Actually, it's just the opposite. They think of you as friends, and they don't want anything to get in the way of that. That's why the Elder Seedseer wrote to you.
Hmmm... This one well knows and respects horned one Kan-E-Senna. Be assured: like walking ones of Gridania, these ones have no desire for conflict.
These ones resorted to summoning Lord Ramuh to protect the wood from imperial ones. This one counseled against doing so, but was not heeded.
Against this one's wishes, Lord Ramuh was summoned...and all those ones who took part became touched ones.
These ones want so desperately to turn touched ones back to normal ones, but did not know how─and still do not know.
Touched ones, meanwhile, wanted to turn these ones into touched ones, and did know how... So this one fled to Little Solace with all those ones who did not wish to be bound to Lord Ramuh.
But walking ones of Gridania need not fear touched ones or Lord Ramuh. Unlike other primal ones, Lord Ramuh is not callous and cruel.
So long as walking ones do not trespass on these ones' ancestral homeland, where touched ones reside, walking ones will not suffer thunderous judgment.
But this one has spoken enough of touched ones. This one would speak instead of these ones. As this one said, these ones desire peace with walking ones of Gridania. And so these ones ask for a chance to set things right.
By way of an addendum, mortals who are tempered come to take on the qualities embodied by the primal in question. In the case of the sylphs, Ramuh's influence has made them fiercely protective of their homeland.
That explains why they're so hostile towards trespassers, but what about the abductions?
A fine question, Yda! The abductions are, I believe, an expression of the tempered sylphs' desire for reconciliation─another quality traditionally associated with Ramuh. In the crudest manner imaginable, they seek to bring their fellows back into the fold. A timely reminder that the challenges posed by each primal are unique.
Elder Frixio, we thank you for making your will known to us. The people of Gridania will rest easier in the knowledge that they and the sylphs are united in their desire for peace.
Wishing to cooperate, this one has written down the feelings of these ones. Please see that these feelings are conveyed to horned one Kan-E-Senna.
And with that, I believe we can lay the matter of Ramuh to rest.
That sylph elder's very reasonable, I must say. You could learn a lot from him.
...Hm!? Was that a jibe? If so, I feel it only fair to observe that one of us wouldn't recognize reason if it punched her on the nose. Did I say fair? I meant: reasonable.
Anyway, we're going to head back to the Waking Sands and tell Minfilia all about it.
Fear not─we will be sure to mention the instrumental part you played in all of this. And while we see to that, we should appreciate it if you would deliver Frixio's missive to the Adders' Nest.
Elder Frixio, we humbly thank you for your time. It has been an honor.
The honor is this one's. Together, let the walking ones of Gridania and these ones find a way to live in peace.
Please wait, walking one Forename.
This one has yet to give walking one a token of this one's appreciation.
When these ones summoned Lord Ramuh, these ones were gifted this crystal. This one would now bestow the crystal upon walking one as a symbol of these ones' trust.
<gasp> This one was not mistaken about walking one.
Walking one is destined to walk a fate far crueler than this one can imagine.
A brilliant light from within walking one enveloped the crystal─this one saw.
Mark this one well: that crystal will one day be of use to walking one. Walking one must keep that crystal safe at all times.
Before walking one returns to Gridania, this one would ask walking one to watch touched ones.
So long as touched ones are not troubled, touched ones will not make trouble.
If walking one witnesses touched ones making no trouble, mayhap walking one can testify to walking ones of Gridania that these ones mean no harm.
These ones' homeland is fraught with danger. This one marks down safe places to look out for touched ones.
These ones' homeland is fraught with danger. This one marks down safe places to look out for touched ones.
Ah, if it isn't Forename. How went the meeting with the sylphs?
A missive from the sylph elder himself!? If I may...
So the sylphs have no desire for conflict, nor do they intend to summon Ramuh.
And so long as we leave the tempered ones be, we need not fear any aggression on their part.
The Elder Seedseer will be overjoyed to hear that the sylphs have welcomed our overtures. And in the knowledge that they bear us no ill will, we may channel our resources towards tackling the more conspicuous threats to our security.
You have done this nation a great service, my friend. On behalf of all Gridanians, I give you my thanks.
The sylphic folk have long been friends to Gridania. The mere thought of being at war with them pained the Elder Seedseer to no end.
But owing to your efforts, she will be able to rest easier. Being the benevolent soul that she is, my lady will surely try to find a way to reverse the tempering process.
Once again, I thank you. Had the Scions of the Seventh Dawn not offered to mediate between our peoples, suspicion and doubt may well have led us into needless conflict. Pray pass on my regards to Lady Minfilia.
...Hello? Hello, Forename? Can you hear me? It is I, Minfilia.
Yda and Papalymo returned some little while ago. And they wasted no time in regaling me with the tale of your exploits.
Thanks in large part to you, the name of one primal may be struck from our list of enemies, and the Gridanians may turn their attention to more pressing matters. Well done!
Yet the end of one tale is but the start of another. Pray return to the Waking Sands at your earliest convenience. I would apprise you of the present situation in person.
Well, if it isn't my favorite adventurer! Welcome back, Forename!
Lady Minfilia awaits you within the solar. Please enter at your leisure.
I am given to understand that the matter of Ramuh has finally been resolved.
Hm. I fear “resolved” bespeaks a permanence we cannot rightly claim. Yet I am well satisfied that the Lord of Levin will not trouble us in the foreseeable future.
Your satisfaction is assurance enough for me.
How fares the investigation?
Well enough. Thancred is sparing no effort.
They are many and one, just as you suspected. Their purpose, however, eludes us still.
I see.
Ah, I have been meaning to ask, but is Alisaie quite well? I feel as if I have scarcely seen her in recent days.
Oh, you haven't─and nor have I, alas. Alisaie has chosen to walk her own path─stubborn girl─but you may be assured that our destination remains the same.
And on that note, I take my leave of you. I trust the Baldesion report will serve you well.
I take it we can proceed as discussed?
Why do you ask? You scarce need my permission to act.
It is good to see you again, Forename!
I have been looking forward to congratulating you on your triumph in the Twelveswood. Owing to your efforts, conflict has been averted. Truly, you have done the Scions proud.
With that, we can strike Ramuh from the list.
So who's next? The Sahagin and Leviathan?
The Lord of the Whorl has not answered his minions' call of late, nor is he expected to do so in the near future.
While the Sahagin remain as aggressive as ever, they lack the quantity of crystals required to call forth their god. As with the sylphs, we can leave them to their own devices...for a time, at least.
“For a time” bears repeating. We can ill afford to fall complacent.
It is as Y'shtola says. Unless we know the minds of the beast tribes, we cannot predict with any certainty when next a primal will return to plague the land.
This being the case, we must proceed with as much haste as prudence allows.
Any word on Titan?
The Maelstrom keeps the kobolds under constant observation.
We shall hear from them ere long, you may depend upon it.
Indeed. So, then─of all the known primals that have been active in recent times, we are left with...
Gridania! Wait, I meant Garuda─who is the primal of the Ixal who live near Gridania. Yes, that's what I meant.
So many malms to cover... Would that there were a more efficient way to conduct our surveys.
Were he still with us, we should not long have wanted for a more practicable solution...
She's not wrong there... <sigh> Where in the world are you, Chief?
...But one sure step at a time!
Henceforth, the Order of the Twin Adder will handle all matters pertaining to the sylphs, under the sage guidance of the Seedseers.
I bid you all enjoy a moment's respite. You have earned it!
Is there something else, Forename?
Beg pardon? A man named Lahabrea, sporting a red mask and robed in black...? Twelve preserve...
Prior to the Calamity, the Ascians took great pains to remain hidden... Why would they choose to cast off their veil of secrecy now? Gods, this bodes ill...
We must take advantage of the present lull in primal hostilities and investigate this Lahabrea─learn all we can of him and his designs. I dread to thi─
EEEEEEK!
Tataru!
A sylph...in Thanalan?
At long last, this one finds walking one Forename!
This one is most dependable of these ones! Is sent by elder one Frixio to help walking ones!
This one is called Noraxia. This one comes as a friend. Let these ones be friends!
P-Pleasure to meet you...Noraxia.
Yes, Tataru is as ready to express her fright as she is to express...everything else! Not all of us are forged of the same steel as you, I'm afraid.
But it takes all kinds to make a family, and it pleases me to no end to see ours continue to grow. One by one, the people of Eorzea are beginning to unite, Forename, drawn to the hope that shines within you.
Yet a darkness threatens to engulf this light. Never have I doubted the Ascians' presence, but that they have grown so brazen as to carry out their work in plain sight fills me with a sense of deep foreboding.
I am afraid there is no rest for the weary, Forename. We must delve further into the motivations of the masked man─the Ascian known as Lahabrea. This is an ideal moment to do so, while our hands are not bound dealing with another primal.
At present, we know little and less about the Ascians─only that destruction follows in their wake.
I should not be surprised if these beings are behind the chaos that racks the realm. If my fears prove to be reality, we must do all in our power to stop them.
Earlier, I sent word to each Grand Company to solicit cooperation. The Immortal Flames responded to the effect that they have information on a potential sighting.
This is intelligence that we can ill afford to ignore. Go speak with Flame Commander Swift at the Hall of Flames in Ul'dah to inquire further. How you go about the investigation thereafter, I leave wholly to your discretion.
But whatever you do, never forget that we are dealing with the unknown. You cannot take too many precautions. Be safe, Forename.
