Greetings, comrade. Forgive me for asking, but you haven't visited the storage tower recently, have you? I only ask because I dropped something in there, and...um... Oh, who am I fooling!? I've fallen for one of the prisoners, all right!? I daresay you know the one I mean. ...Eh? The svelte blonde? Goodness, no!
It's the Lalafellin lass I'm smitten with! She's so adorable, it hurts! I want to sweep her up into my arms and squeeze her till my arms ache!What do you reckon it would take to convince the centurion to lend me the key so I can see her?
What's this? You need access to the storage tower? What business have you there?
...At the tribunus's behest, you say? This is highly irregular, but it would not do to make my lady wroth. Take my identification key. See that it is returned when your errand is concluded.
Security's tight, just as we expected. We're going to need a special key if we want to get past this bulkhead.
No!
Minfilia...and the rest! Thank goodness they're safe!
I am the one you want! Leave the others be!
If you harm my friends, I swear I shall take my own life─and you shall answer to your mistress!
<gasp> T-Tataru! We must do something!
We risk letting the entire castrum know we're here.
Aye...you're right. We may not get a better chance.
This is the third squadron. What is it?
...A reaper? Seized when?
...And this came to light only NOW!?
The culprits will have left a trail. Take as many men as you need and scour the area! I want that reaper found!
Now's our chance!
What the─!? Strike my last!
Eliminate the intruders!
You came!
Uwaaah!
I'm coming!
Unbind us, Forename. Together we may yet win free.
Forename! Get these shackles off us, quickly!
<whimper> Forename! I was so scared!
It was foolish of you to come here. You might have been killed!
But...thank you. I shudder to think what might have happened had you not arrived when you did.
I say, did you not see Thancred anywhere? I'm beginning to fear for the fellow...
To linger here shall yield us no answer. Let us away, ere the window to our liberty closes shut.
...What did you say? Escaped?
Then recapture them! Fail and I shall have your head.
...And what have we here?
...The tribunus herself, just as you said. You have the eye of an ahriman, Yda.
Well...she's kind of hard to miss in that showy armor of hers.
Accursed Scions... How did you slip our defenses?
With unexpected ease, if truth be told. There chanced to be a commotion outside the castrum's walls which allowed us to avail ourselves of the comforts of your vehicle.
Y'shtola's just being polite. That was one of the most uncomfortable things I've ever stowed away in. It's no wonder it's called the Phantom Train─no passenger would be seen dead on it!
So you scuttled in amidst the freight, like the vermin you are. I shall be sure to have words with our ratcatcher. Such negligence is unforgivable.
That is far from your most pressing concern. First, you must answer for your own wrongdoing, Livia sas Junius.
'Twas you who led the raid on the Waking Sands─you who butchered unarmed men and women for the crime of being unworthy of capture.
You killed our friends! We'll never forgive you!
Nor shall we suffer you to plague Eorzea a day longer. Betake you to your guard.
More intruders! Protect the tribunus!
Confound it! Yda, with me!
After them!
Where is His Excellency?
In the hangar, my lady─in discussion with our guest!
Alert him at once!
Yes, my lady!
No! No, no, NO!
There they are! Fan out and surround them!
Must...protect...Tataru! Biggs─I'm going in! See everyone to safety!
No! Wedge─don't do it!
Oh, no... Forename─hold them off! I'll look after Minfilia and Tataru!
