...Hm? Got business with me, 'venturer?
So you're the woman the Admiral sent word of.
I was hopin' I might catch a glimpse of Thancred, too—been a while since I saw his shite-eatin' grin. But what with all the doe-eyed wenches about, I 'spect he's got his hands full.
Ah, and you must be the Far Easterner what Merlwyb says wants to train with us. Welcome to Limsa, milady!
I am Yugiri of Doma. 'Tis an honor to make your acquaintance.
I must confess, when first I learned of your organization, I had certain...preconceptions as to the nature of your membership. It would seem I was mistaken.
You're not the first person to say that, lass. Limsa's a city of pirates, to be sure, and pirates don't give two farts about keepin' a spotless reputation. They hardly need a secret society to do their dirty work.
Might be as my people and I keep to the shadows, but we've got nothin' to be ashamed of. It's simply better for business that we remain unseen.
And so you have developed fighting techniques suited to this purpose. I see. Know that the practitioners of my art, too, are denizens of shadow. 'Tis in stealth that our strength lies. There is much we might learn from one another, I think.
Then what in the seven hells are we waitin' for? If you'd come with us, Yugerry of Do-whatsit, we can get acquainted in more private surrounds... Hah, that didn't come out right, did it!?
Lady Forename. I shall remain with these people for a time, that I might study their ways.
Though I am loath to be separated from my countrymen, I take solace in the knowledge that they are in the best of hands.
You have been a true friend to us Domans. No words would suffice to express my gratitude.
Ere long, I hope to begin imparting my martial knowledge to the people of Eorzea. When that time comes, it would be my honor to welcome you as a student.
Much and more has occurred since first I beheld Eorzea from the galleon's deck. Suffice it to say, I did not envisage being invited to play a part in your noble struggle.
But forgive me, I have kept you overlong. Doubtless you have pressing business of your own. Rest assured that I no longer require an escort in this land.
When next you meet Lady Minfilia, pray relay to her my humblest thanks. Would that I could do so in person, but I must needs fulfill my promise to the Admiral. Till we meet again, Warrior of Light.
I have been reflecting upon the events which took place during our visit to Vylbrand.
If you have a moment, I would share my conclusions with you. Please bear with me.
When the Sahagin elder summoned Leviathan, he employed the power we have come to know as the Echo.
Though I cannot well explain the how of it, it would seem he became immortal in so doing.
When the Admiral subsequently slew him, his spirit emerged from his lifeless flesh, a consciousness shorn of physical form.
Thus transfigured, he took up residence in the body of his minion with the ease of a man donning a favorite glove.
Long have I known that the Echo allows one to pass through the walls of a man's soul.
But never did I imagine that it could free us from our own flesh, nor less that our souls could then occupy the next corporeal vessel to take our fancy.
It was of this that Elidibus spoke─an existence which knows neither cessation nor oblivion.
And yet, though the Sahagin had mastered his gift and thereby become immortal, he was by no means invulnerable.
As we both bore witness, he was ultimately absorbed into Leviathan.
And the import of this observation? If the Ascians' mode of existence is indeed the same, it can be inferred that they, too, are not invulnerable─that they can be destroyed.
There exists a legend which tells of souls who are reborn upon the cusp of each Umbral Calamity, that they might stay the encroaching Darkness.
To most, it is but a faerie tale, yet recent events have given me cause to wonder: could the legend in fact refer to the Echo?
Much and more yet remains unknown, but I am confident that all will become clear in time.
For the present, however, what matters is that the key to defeating the Ascians may at last be within sight.
With Urianger's aid, it is my hope that I shall fathom this matter ere long.
Ah! I was just about to send for you, my friend....Is aught amiss?
Grave tidings from the Sharlayan motherland, my lady.
It doth concern our distant allies, the Students of Baldesion.
What of them?
My lady...the Isle of Val, which for many years hath been the order's home, is no more.
No more? Whatever do you mean?
I relate only that which hath been conveyed unto me by our agents. An aetheric wave of the highest magnitude was recorded in the region. Soon thereafter, 'twas observed that the isle had ceased to be.
'Tis postulated that a magick was evoked, like in power to Ultima.
Twelve preserve...
If there are no other matters, I move that today's meeting be adjourned.
