Oh, kami be praised! I don't know what I would've done if you hadn't come along.
My partners and I got separated when we fled. You haven't seen them, have you?
Damn... Before the Kojin started chasing us, their leader asked us if we were Doman...
They're Yotsuyu's catchers, I know it! First Isari, and now this! I've got to tell Rasho and the others!
Ah, there you are, Forename. I heard you went shark hunting?
We too did our fair share of beast culling─though I think Lyse made a stronger impression when she bested a drunken pirate in a sparring match. Fastest knockout to date, I am told.
I should like to think we have proven ourselves to be rather─Hm. Why do I get the feeling you have something important to tell me?
Kojin mercenaries rounding up Doman Confederates? Surely Yotsuyu has crossed the line now...
We must go and speak with Rasho immediately. Even he cannot deny that this changes everything.
At least, I should like to think that he cannot...
Our most compassionate acquaintances return. For your deeds, we owe you many thanks.
...But something tells me our thanks are not sufficient. The strange thing is, I was certain you understood our position. And yet here you are with that same look in your eyes─and those same words upon your lips, I'll wager.
I speak only the truth. The Confederacy will not be spared Yotsuyu's wrath. You have always known this─that one day you would have no choice but to stand up to the Empire. I say to you that day is today, and come once more to ask that you join us in the fight.
How convenient that recent events should lend such credence to your claims. Tell me, do death and destruction always follow in your wake?
They had no part in it, Tansui. You know this. We all know this.
They came and took our Doman brothers. They will torture them for her sport─murder them for her satisfaction.
So we attack, and get butchered for our trouble...or do naught, and let them have their pound of flesh.
If this be our choice, I say we suffer the ignominy. We endure. We survive. There is no better path.
Until the day our enemy is grown weaker, and we stronger, there can be no retribution. We will wait for a sign. Such is the judgment of the Confederacy.
So that's it, then. You're just going to abandon them. To her.
They'd die for you, you know─for the Confederacy. They would die for you, but you wouldn't even think to risk your lives for theirs!
I have one last idea, if you will allow. I'm afraid it's not very good as ideas go─it's exceedingly reckless, in fact, and you may well come to despise me for ever having suggested it. Assuming we survive, that is.
The question being: do you trust me?
We can't stand by and let innocent people suffer─here or anywhere else.I'll do whatever it takes.
Then let us roll the dice.
If it's a sign you want, we shall give you one. One rousing enough to make you drive every Garlean out of Isari without a second thought.
You are wary of invoking the ire of the imperial forces stationed in Doma, correct?
Know then that once we have rescued our comrade and freed Isari, we mean to liberate the nation as a whole.
You will doubtless require assurances that we are capable of achieving this─and that is only fair. Accordingly, we shall demonstrate our seriousness by depriving the Garleans of a key ally: the Kojin.
What, the three of you? Just like that?
Actually, my esteemed colleague here will attend to it on her own. But the how of it is not your concern─only the outcome.
If we succeed, you help us liberate Isari. If we fail, you lose nothing. A simple enough wager─if you have the stones for it.
The little miss does make it hard to refuse, does she not?
Words are air. We will weigh you by your deeds.
So. Alone you will deal with the Kojin.
If you are set upon this course, I shall give to you a word of advice.
Two factions have the Kojin. The mercenaries who serve the Empire belong to the Red.
Those who belong to the Blue are the traders. They have made no pact with the imperials, and so may be willing to aid your cause.
Seek the Blue on the Isle of Bekko. There you will find a cave. The rest is up to you.
Thank you, Captain. We shall endeavor not to keep you waiting overlong for your sign.
Right, then. Let us head for─ Wait, where is Lyse? We cannot leave without her.
Hm? Forename? What is it?
Oh, sorry. I didn't mean to wander off. I...I just wanted to have a think.
You're worried we won't be able to live up to our promises?
No, it's not that at all! If anything, I'm frustrated that I didn't think of it first...
Yda and my father had a way with words. They knew how to inspire people─how to bring them together. I always hoped I might have something of that in me too, but I'm starting to think I don't.
What am I even doing here...?
...Lyse, you─
Gods, listen to me! I don't know where that came from. Forget I said anything!
We have places to go, imperials to fight, and friends to save! And we're not going to get any of it done by standing around here moaning, right?
...Right?
...Before we first traveled to Gyr Abania, I was in Limsa Lominsa, visiting...visiting a friend. A young child who had been through a great deal.
...That's neither here nor there, I suppose. Anyway, on the way back, I passed a patisserie which sold some of the most exquisite-looking tarts I had ever seen. I've always preferred cookies, to be honest, but nevertheless I decided to stop and try one...
...I'll treat you to one, when all this is over. Forename too─and I won't take no for an answer.
What about Y'shtola? We'd never hear the end of it!
All right, all right─Y'shtola too, once she's better. Deal? Good. Then let's hurry, shall we? We have a million things to do before then!
I think this is the Isle of Bekko─though, to be honest, it looks the same to me as however many other islands around here...
Rasho said there was a cave that would lead us to their village. We should search further inland.
Is that light I see up ahead?
We, uh...appear to be standing inside a giant bubble.By the Twelve...I think we're on the seabed!
Well, well! I thought I heard familiar voices.
Soroban? What are you doing here?
Hmm? What a curious question. I live here.
Then this is the home of the Blue Kojin?
Just so. I bid you welcome to Tamamizu!
How fortunate that we should find a familiar face in this place...
We should tell Soroban about our situation. If anyone here can help us, it's him!
So tell me, my friends─what strange tides bear you to our home?
That is indeed a most dire predicament...but perhaps an opportunity for us to craft yet another profitable arrangement!
Very well. I shall introduce you to our leader, Bunchin. It will be up to you, however, to present your case.
