All instructions in the processing manual must be strictly observed. As we have charge of the realm's most vital resource, actions resulting in damage or loss constitute a serious crime.First Stage: ExtractionMixed aether comprised of both memory and soul is extracted from regulators and transferred into the stabilizing tank. As hastening extraction increases the risk of damage, the rate must not be adjusted except in the event of an emergency.
Priority Observation SubjectIdentification number: 161127Name: NamikkaPhysical cessation age: 86Citizen memory erasure: CompletedCorporeal disposal: CompletedAether extraction: Completed
Namikka...
The conveyor's been activated. We can continue up.
According to our data, this is where souls are stripped of memories...
Indeed. The souls are the white matter, and they're being sent to Zoraal Ja.
Second Stage: SeparationMixed aether is put through the aetheric separator and divided into its soul and memory components. Soul aether is then conveyed to upper Origenics for final processing, and memory aether to the Meso Terminal (route and location classified).Unless expressly specified, the memories of fiends are discarded.
According to Elene'shpya, we continue through here.
You do not want to become lost here.
Looks like they knew we were coming...
Some kind of machine!?
Doesn't look like it'll let us through.
Intruders detected. Initializing all turrets and support units.
Engaging hostiles.
Increasing sub-weapon output.
Deploying support units. Initiating cover fire.
Active camouflage operational.
Heh, you can't fool us!
Far too rough around the edges!
It's easy if you know what to look for.
Deploying turrets. Initiating suppressive fire.
Maintaining 80% coordination rate.
Intruders still remain. Transmitting emergency code.
Victory is ours!
Well done. The conveyors up ahead should take you to the upper level.
Onwards to the upper level!
This won't be comfortable, but intruders can't be choosers.
Everyone ready?
Of course!
I'm afraid this is where our data ends. You're on your own now.
What will we find here, I wonder.
The souls are being cleansed prior to storage...
Being stored...like common goods.
They're headed up...but where do we go from here?
These are all lives...
