What an enormous gate! Lord Golbez will be eager to hear of this!
So this is the promised land... The land of boundless aether!
Arrrgh!
I daresay the seal doth serve its purpose.
I see all proceedeth apace. Remarkable...
Indeed. Just this moment, a voidsent emerged from the gate─by which we may safely assume it leads to the Thirteenth.
It's incredible, Y'shtola! Truly incredible! Oh, what an honor it is to have been part of this historic achievement!
A part is an understatement. None of this would have been possible without you and yours.
Our success has also served to solidify our understanding of cross-rift travel.
The Ascians rejoined reflections to the Source by instigating elemental imbalances. These imbalances weakened the barrier between realities, causing the aether of a reflection to flood the Source.
But why is it that reflections are predisposed to rejoin the Source? Why have they never merged with one another?
Thou art suggesting there is a unique property inherent to the Source─one responsible for such an outcome?
I am. 'Tis my conclusion that, as the point of origin for the reflections, the Source has an innate “pull” over them.
Hydaelyn, I believe, sought to suppress that pull, which is why She was created with the power of Light─of stasis.
Meanwhile, the power of Darkness─of activity─reigns in the void. Hydaelyn's influence would naturally be weaker, and this manifested in the form of planar fissures.
Working with this hypothesis, I set my sights upon where the pull was assessed to be strongest. And through our combined efforts, we succeeded in opening a gate to the void.
Now, I must stress: it was because we sought the void that we succeeded. Pleased though I am to have my theory proven, the secrets of travel to other reflections still elude us.
Even so, in the reality that lies beyond the Eighth Umbral Calamity, there are those who found a way to reach the First. I will not rest until I do the same.
One step closer to fulfilling your dream, eh?
Just a step. Many more remain to be taken.
Which further motivates me to forestall a voidsent invasion. So come, let us set forth─to find Azdaja, and put an end to Golbez's plot!
Climb upon my back. I shall take us to the gate.
As we did discuss prior, I shall see the alchemists safely home, then together with the Loporrits, maintain vigil over the gate.
May the Sisters watch over and keep you safe!
Unto the void once more!
This is the moon of the Thirteenth?
It is. Ever since the Flood, it has been a sanguinary orb in the sky.
No voidsent. A rather more subdued reception than I had anticipated.
But unsurprising, given how jealously Golbez conceals the location of his domain.
Still, we must remain on guard. One of his minions came through the gate, after all, and more may lie in wait.
I do not sense my sister... Where could she be? Where?
Steady, Vrtra. We've barely arrived. Let us explore our surrounds before drawing conclusions.
Yes... Thou art right.
I shall survey the moon from above. The ground, I leave to you all.
My lance will be ready should any more of Golbez's pawns appear.
No sign of a watcher or any Loporrits. Perhaps they were swallowed up in the Flood of Darkness...or perhaps they never existed here.
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
The chasm has caught your attention as well.
There's some manner of structure below. Worth a look, wouldn't you say?
I too sense something here.
This pit much resembles the Cradle of Darkness on our moon, where Zodiark was once imprisoned.
If this place serves the same function, then a fragment of His power must have been sealed in the depths.
Strange, though. When Zodiark perished in the Source, I presumed that every aspect of Him was thus unmade, and His power scattered.
But it's unmistakable, the Darkness that permeates this abyss. Could a trace of Him yet remain...or is it something else?
I hear thee, Sister! I hear thee!
Climb on, my friends! Azdaja is here, within this chasm!
Sister!
'Tis I, Vrtra! I have come to rescue thee!
You were entrusted with Azdaja's eye, were you not?
