That sounds lovely.
But a group of foreigners is going to attract attention, especially if they're in the company of the Third Promise. Everyone will be curious. We certainly were!
Your siblings have a tendency to, uh, command a respectful distance. But you─you're just so easy to approach!
And I enjoy it so much when you do. Please, don't ever worry that you're a bother to me.
You're very kind. Good day to you, Third Promise.
They did have a point.
Wuk Lamat is technically royalty here. Like it or not, a person of her station surrounded by this many outsiders is bound to draw a crowd.
Wait, what do you mean “technically”!?
I suggest we move in two groups so as to attract less attention.
Just “technically” ignoring me, then...
Forename, you and Krile can come with me.
I'll take the twins, then.
We'll get in touch once we've had a good look around.
That voyage was hard on all of us, so take it slow and recuperate. We have time enough for that.
Enjoy your wanderings.
Perhaps we should wait a bit. At least until Wuk Lamat's nausea subsides.
No need for that! Look, I'm ready to go!
...Urgh.
Tuliyollal isn't going anywhere. Let's give Wuk Lamat a little more time.
I'm fine now, really. Can't stand around all day feeling sorry for myself, what with the contest looming and all.
Now, then. Seeing as we're already here, I might as well tell you about the harbor.
Erenville already mentioned the reefs in our coastal waters, which explains why you don't see any big ships moored at the docks.
Only vessels with shallow drafts can navigate the bay─mostly small fishing boats or barges ferrying cargo up and down the rivers from inland settlements.
Much of the incoming traffic is from Yok Tural, the southern landmass. The clans there produce various goods for export.
Their wares are unloaded here and carted off to the merchant stalls in the neighboring markets. Speaking of which, Bayside Bevy should be our next stop.
Tuliyollal is like my own garden─I could lead you around with my eyes closed. If this tour were a ship, it'd be plain sailing all the way!
Urgh... The word “ship” alone is enough to curdle my stomach...
Did you miss a meal or something? We'll wait for you at the harbor, so hurry back!
Ah, there you are. Let's get back to it!
Wandering around this city is so exciting! Unfamiliar wonders everywhere we look!
Something urgent to attend to? Not to worry, we can meet you at the harbor.
Everything all right? Then on with the tour!
This is Bayside Bevy, Tuliyollal's largest marketplace.
Being right on the harbor, everything from fresh fish to imported wares go directly to the shelves. Anything you want, they most likely have.
Oh, right, I should mention that here in Tuliyollal we buy things with “pel,” a currency that the Pelupelu created.
But don't worry! More and more trade is coming in from Eorzea, so most shops are happy to accept your gil.
There's also Wachumeqimeqi, another market to the east of here, but that can wait for another time. I have other places I want to show you first.
Next, we'll head back a bit, then northwards up the stairs to a certain plaza. Hehe, I can't wait to see the look on your faces!
'Tis reassuring to know we can use our gil for shopping here!
As long as you remember it was invented by the “Pelupelu,” you'll never forget what our currency is called!
What do you think of that, eh?
Goodness me, you have aetherytes in Tuliyollal?
I think I told you before, but my brother, Koana, spent three years studying in Sharlayan.
He fell in love with the nation and its ways, and brought back to us the knowledge of aetheryte construction. Papa warmed to the idea at once─had one built immediately.
Did you do the “attuning” thing? If you're ready to continue, we'll head down again and then up the slope to the side. Right at the top is the gate which leads to Xak Tural.
Let's make a stop at Brightploom Post on the way, though─that's the headquarters for the Landsguard.
Make sure you attune to the aetheryte! I don't fully understand how it works, but I do know you'll regret it if you forget.
Thank goodness for aetherytes. Though I don't share Wuk Lamat's dislike of ships, I'm not especially eager to make that voyage again...
We have a lot of narrow, winding streets that crawl up the sides of the mountain. As you can see, though, the builders made sure the city's main thoroughfares were wide enough to accommodate wagons.
Trudging up and down all these slopes and stairs is exhausting. I understand now where Wuk Lamat gets her endless endurance.
Here we are─Brightploom Post. The soldiers stationed here are responsible for defending Tuliyollal and preserving the peace.
The Landsguard are led by our nation's strongest warrior, and so naturally Papa has commanded them since the beginning.
...At least until three years ago, when Zoraal Ja took over as commander. The title is no empty honor─it means the First Promise is considered equal to the Dawnservant in martial strength.
Meanwhile, I haven't even managed to...
Well, I'll discuss my brothers and their accomplishments later. Alphinaud and Alisaie should be around to hear it, too.
Come on, it's time I showed you the skygate. It's right at the northern end of Talonmarch!
If I'm to succeed Papa, then it's my brothers I need to surpass first...
Zoraal Ja─that's clearly a Mamool Ja name. An interesting family.
Massive, isn't it?
And on the other side is an equally massive bridge to match. Both were constructed by a race of giants─the Yok Huy.
Strictly speaking, Tural is actually two separate continents: Yok Tural, the southern lands of the Mother; and Xak Tural, the northern lands of the Father, which lie beyond the bridge.
Legends say it used to be one great landmass. But long, long ago, the two gods fought a titanic battle, and when one threw the other to the ground, the impact was so devastating as to split the continent in twain.
A familiar-sounding tale... I am put in mind of the conflict between Hydaelyn and Zodiark.
But getting back to Xak Tural. Those lands are also part of the Tuliyollal nation, correct?
That's right. Isn't my father incredible? He united the peoples of two continents into a single nation.
The many clans of Tural had been at war for generations. It was only when Papa traveled the lands and put a stop to their myriad conflicts that we finally had peace.
And that's the main reason I want to win the throne: so I can preserve the peace he built.
...But I see you're more interested in what's behind the gate than hearing about my aspirations.
Crossing the bridge to Xak Tural requires a special travel pass. Unfortunately, they won't issue any new permits until the rite of succession is over. I promise to get you one when I'm Dawnservant, but until then...you'll just have to wait!
I've never broken my word! Once the throne is mine, that travel permit is yours!
You really mean that... Heh, woe to anyone who stands between you and adventure!
Be patient. I swear that once the throne is mine, that travel permit is yours.
Tired from all this walking? Take a moment to rest, and we'll continue the tour!
We must have covered half the city by now...
Tuliyollal is unlike any other place I've visited. I'm thoroughly enjoying myself!
Creation stories are often rooted in true events. Given the similarities, could it be that Tural's legend was inspired by Hydaelyn's clash with Zodiark?
We'll head west next, towards the Arch of the Dawn. The dirigible landing is on the way.
You have dirigibles, too? Tuliyollal certainly doesn't want for methods of travel.
We get by! Now, if you've seen enough of this area, let me know and we'll continue on.
The Arch of the Dawn is on the other side of the city, so speak up if you see something that interests you as we walk!
I hope you aren't too tired. Tuliyollal still has plenty of sights to see!
A private matter? We'll be waiting for you by the skygate, then!
I wasn't sure you were coming back... Not that I was worried, mind you. Just a little restless, is all!
We should heed Erenville's suggestion and take it slow where we can. I imagine we'll need our full strength for the contest to come.
Understood. We'll meet you by the skygate.
Finished what you needed to do? Then let's resume our tour!
I'm still struggling to conceive how one could construct an entire city on the side of a mountain.
This was originally the site of a Yok Huy temple. The giants built it when they were first making the bridge to Xak Tural, to appease the god who slumbers in the great ocean trench.
After the Yok Huy withdrew, the temple stood empty for centuries. So when Papa was establishing his new nation, he saw a structure he could refurbish into a palace, sitting practically in the center of Tural.
He gathered artisans to do the work, and the houses they built for themselves became the foundation of the city you see today!
Speaking of houses, we'll be passing through the Resplendent Quarter, the biggest residential district in Tuliyollal. We climb these sets of stairs here─all the way up!
So this was once a place of worship... The Yok Huy seem a fascinating people, but I've not seen any in the city. I wonder when we'll have the chance to meet them.
The stairs leading up to the peak can get pretty steep. Careful you don't fall─I've been one step away from death more than a few times!
The sheer scale of this place is incredible. I wonder what that carving at the top represents...
Papa's palace is called Vollok Shoonsa, which roughly translates to “invincible resilience.”
You probably want to take a closer look, but we'll be coming back here later. Let's move on for now.
So, this is the Resplendent Quarter. What manner of people live here?
Oh, we have residents from all the Yok Tural clans: Mamool Ja, Xbr'aal, Pelupelu, Moblin, Hanuhanu...
We also have Tonawawta, Hhetsarro, and Shetona who moved south from their ancestral lands in Xak Tural.
In essence, it's a gathering of people from every corner of Tural.
A true representation of Tuliyollal's diverse character... The adornments on each building contribute to the eclectic cultural aesthetic. It's all so beautiful!
I'm glad you think so! Come, we continue down the stairs.
One need only look to the children playing for a sense of how peaceful things must be here.
You might hear the Hyur in Tural referred to as “Tonawawta,” one of our major clans. As for Erenville, he belongs to a Viera clan known as the “Shetona.”
I've never seen such an enormous drum. What would one even use to beat such an instrument?
That big drum there is called the Dawnherald. They play it for formal occasions, like when honoring the Landsguard's return from a dangerous duty.
I tried hitting it with my axe once and ripped the skin. Earned me a proper scolding, let me tell you! I think that was the time Papa held me upside down by the ankle...
And here are our dirigibles! Not bad, eh?
I hear other nations use airships to sail the skies, but you'll only find balloons in Tuliyollal.
We have them for the exact same reason as the aetherytes. Koana brought back the plans from Sharlayan, and Papa thought them fantastic and commissioned their construction. This was around three years ago.
Since that time, we've added flights to other settlements. Trade with frontier communities has never been easier.
But that's enough about dirigibles. The Arch of the Dawn awaits!
Balloons are all well and good, but flying through the air is not for me. It's not that I'm afraid, of course, it just seems...unnatural.
Hearing about dirigibles reminds me of the Ixal and their flying vessels. But whereas their designs use several bladders, it seems the Turali craft rely on one large envelope to lift them into the air.
This is it: the Arch of the Dawn.
When the giants were still here, it was known as the Yok Tural landgate. But when Papa founded Tuliyollal, everyone began using its present name in honor of his great achievement.
Through this gate is Kozama'uka, the wetlands south of the city. Depending on what the rite of succession asks of us, we might end up going in that direction.
Kozama'uka... The name alone is intriguing.
Speaking of which, what were those fluffy animals we passed earlier?
Ah... Those are alpacas. Fearsome, four-legged fiends.
Fearsome? They seemed quite placid to me...
You'll learn soon enough, Krile. You'll learn soon enough...
But forget the alpacas─I have something far more important to show you. Come along!
Are these pillars what Wuk Lamat wanted to show us?
If you wish to learn the history of Tuliyollal, then look no further!
These stone pillars, you mean...?
Heh, this spot's captured Krile's attention.
What is special about these pillars, if I may ask?
At a glance, they might look like ordinary stone decorations.
But if you take a really good look, you'll see they're something much more interesting!
I suppose we ought to do as Wuk Lamat suggests.
Pictures...? Wait, no, these are glyphs!
They seem to tell a series of stories, many of them featuring a two-headed Mamool Ja. Oh! Then this must be...
That's right. It follows the exploits of my father, Gulool Ja Ja, and his journey to unite our lands. We call it the Tuliyollal Saga!
The deeds he performed and the bonds he forged, all immortalized in stone.
There's no better way to learn how Tuliyollal came to be. Study them as long as you like!
The four stones closest to us cover the first half of Papa's travels. Let's start with those.
This pillar tells the Lay of the Brotherhood. It depicts the scene where Papa granted an audience to the foreign explorer, Ket...something. I can never remember the name.
You mean “Ketenramm”?
Ah, that's the one. Ketenramm's arrival in Tural is what prompted Papa to embark on his own journey.
It's said the two grew to be close friends─brothers in spirit, if not in blood. But no one knows what became of the explorer in later years.
Ketenramm's disappearance is a mystery in Eorzea as well. The records say he traveled between our lands and yours for a while, but then it's assumed he was lost at sea.
Uh, let's see... This one is the Lay of Pots, which depicts the Moblins of Kozama'uka.
They might wear odd masks and sound weirdly muffled when they talk, but the gold- and silverwork they sell is the best you'll find anywhere. Moblin goods are the standard when it comes to gift giving.
Clearly the Vanu aren't the only people with distant Turali counterparts...
Here we have the Lay of Reeds. This is the story of when Papa visited the Hanuhanu in their village in Kozama'uka.
Ah, the people Alphinaud almost mistook for Vanu Vanu, if not for the colorful plumage. He spent a fair bit of time among the Vanu in the Sea of Clouds, so it's no surprise he took an interest in your countrymen.
I don't know how it is with your Vanu, but our Hanu are a bright and cheerful sort. They hold this one festival every year─very famous, and a lot of fun.
This one recounts the Lay of Repast. As you can probably tell, the figure depicted here is of the Xbr'aal, like me.
For decades, the Xbr'aal and the Mamool Ja were at war for control of the forest of Yak T'el.
The actions Papa took to end that conflict have since been hailed as the first steps in the founding of Tuliyollal.
There is a clan of Hrothgar in Bozja known as Helions. In their society, the women rule as queens, and the men serve as devoted subjects.
Yet here in Tural, Xbr'aal men and women appear to be of equal status. How dramatically culture can vary with location.
If you're done with the first half, we can move on to the second!
Not ready to move on yet? That's fine! I don't mind retelling the stories.
Not ready to move on yet? That's fine! I don't mind retelling the stories.
And these four comprise the rest of the saga.
The Lay of Gold. This pillar shows one of the Pelupelu, whose homeland is in Urqopacha.
Having created our currency, the Pelu are rightfully known as the merchant clan. They oversee Tuliyollal's markets, and their traveling peddlers are a common sight no matter where you go in Tural.
Don't let their size fool you! They might be mistaken as children, but beneath those beaked masks, they are clever and calculating traders.
Ah, the Lay of Proof... That big fellow is of the Yok Huy, the largest of Tural's peoples.
These giants once used their great size and strength to establish a dominion encompassing all of Yok Tural.
Having brought the southern reaches to heel, they then turned northwards, setting their sights on Xak Tural. You'll recall that massive bridge they built beyond the skygate...
Some time after launching their northern campaign, however, they just...gave up. They abandoned the lands they'd conquered and withdrew into the mountains of Urqopacha. I've never even seen any of their kind so much as set foot in the city.
This was a people with the power and resourcefulness to raise a temple on a mountaintop and build a bridge across the sea with stone. What would move them to renounce their ambitions and their place in Turali history...?
Oh, this one is my favorite: the Lay of Ice. It depicts the battle with the legendary tural vidraal, Valigarmanda!
I should explain. A tural vidraal is a creature that has lived far beyond its usual lifespan and awakened to preternatural power.
Valigarmanda itself was dubbed the Skyruin, a name earned for the destruction and terror it visited upon Tural every time it stirred from its slumber.
But eighty years or so ago, its ruinous reign was brought to an end! After a great struggle, Papa and his comrades managed to overcome the raging vidraal, and sealed it away in the Urqopacha mountains.
Despite its reputation, however, Valigarmanda is also a symbol of power. That's why you'll see its likeness on Tuliyollal's national emblem, and adorning the banners at the palace.
Oh, this one is unmarked.
Papa says he left a blank pillar for the next chapter of Tuliyollal's history. Whatever that might be.
Had your fill of history, then?
Of course! Take as much time as you need!
Well, there you have it. I trust that gave you a better understanding of our nation. If you want to review anything, just let me know.
Of course! Take as much time as you need!
Glad to hear it!
You know, I feel awfully hungry all of a sudden... No surprises there seeing I couldn't keep anything down for a while. But now I think I'm ready to eat again!
So let's go and have ourselves a bite of a local delicacy! Come, I'll take you to the best restaurant in the city!
I like the sound of that!
What a lovely establishment. I'm reminded of the Bismarck in Limsa Lominsa.
Have you ever had tacos? They're a Tuliyollal classic! You bake a crunchy shell made from corn flour, and fill it with meat and salad.
A lot of shops and stalls sell them, but I like how they're made here at Xbalyav Ty'e best.
And I need one right in front of me, right now! Let's head downstairs and place an order with old Br'uk Evu!
Every dish looks delicious! At the risk of sounding like Wuk Lamat, the mere sight of so much fine cuisine is making me ravenous.
This is Br'uk Evu, the owner. Don't let his unassuming appearance fool you─when it comes to making tacos, he is the greatest artisan in all of Tural!
Br'uk Evu!
My companions must sample your heavenly tacos. One for each of us, please.
