Ignorant swine! Soon you will know the futility of your faith!
Do you see, heretic? You and your allies are no match for the might of Ishgard!
How wrong you are, Ishgardian! I have been blessed with power far beyond your ken!
Come, my brothers─grant me the strength to smite our enemies!
I...am...reborn!
Stand your ground─'tis but an illusion!
A dragon stands before you, yet still you do not flee!?
Your magicks have no power over me, heretic!
No, NO! It cannot be!
My glamours...dispelled...
Your plans lie in ruin, heretic. Choose your words wisely, for they will be your last.
<cough> <wheeze> Hah hah... You may not recall the many Ishgardians I have sentenced, but the families of the dead will never forget. Blood has been repaid with blood, and for that I am content.
My...my only regret is that you yet live...
But your end is nigh, foreigner. The dragons within the Stone Vigil will rend you asunder. And when you are dead, Whitebrim Front shall fall...
Defiant to the last. Leave the body for the crows─his ilk deserves naught better.
Forename, I must apologize for involving you in this sordid business. You should never have been asked to intervene in Ishgardian affairs of state.
Rest assured, I have not forgotten the matter which first brought you into our midst. It is past time that you were reunited with your airship.
But this is not the place to discuss such matters. Pray visit me at Whitebrim Front─and bring your associates.
Where have you been, Forename? ...Hm? The false inquisitor has been slain, has he? Yes, well, his was a tale always like to end in bloodshed.
Though you have overcome the latest in a long line of unfortunate impediments, I would ask you not to revel in your victory just yet.
We can celebrate once we have secured the Enterprise!
As I am sure you will agree, it is past time we entered the Stone Vigil. Pay Lord Drillemont a visit and remind him of his obligation to us─Cid and I will follow anon.
We owe you all a great debt of gratitude. Had it not been for you, the heretic masquerading as Inquisitor Guillaime would still be among us, free to prey upon the innocent.
I see now that I was a fool to dismiss your claims out of hand... But you must understand, it seemed too much to hope that the Scions of the Seventh Dawn still lived, to say nothing of Master Garlond!
Never have I been happier to be proven wrong.
Well, it is gratifying to know that someone has derived a measure of enjoyment from your error.
Now, if you have no further objections, we would appreciate it if you would permit us to enter the Stone Vigil and retrieve our airship.
Yes! Yes, of course. It is the very least I can do, given all that you have done for us.
But entering the outpost is the least of your concerns, I fear...
You speak of the Dravanians that now hold the ruin.
...In part, yes. I should explain: shortly after you first arrived, I had my men scour the old records. They confirmed that an abandoned airship had been seized by the soldiers garrisoned at the Stone Vigil in the days following the Calamity.
As far as we have been able to ascertain, it was still in their custody when the outpost was overrun by the dragons. Whether it was damaged or destroyed during the battle, I cannot say, nor can I give you any assurances that it has not been removed in the intervening years.
For far too long, the ruin has served as a Dravanian foothold in Coerthas, from which they have struck out at us with depressing regularity.
Though we have pushed them back behind the walls, we have as yet been unable to drive them out, and I cannot say when the situation will change.
Or how it will change. Forgive me, Lord Drillemont, but there is no guarantee that you will prevail. In any event, we have not the time to wait. We will secure our property without Ishgardian aid.
I see. Well, that may be for the best.
I will inform Ser Nathelain of your impending visit. May Halone guide you, Scions.
