Begging your pardons. Please do not think me strange for asking, but can you tell me if we are close to Selbina? Or perhaps Mhaura? I fear I am hopelessly lost.
Selbina? Mhaura? Sorry dear, but you're on the eastern shore of Vylbrand─eastern La Noscea to be precise. I take it you're the Far Eastern traveler that's been the talk of the taverns as of late? You've cut quite the war path through Eorzea from what I've heard.
Yes, I hail from the Far East, but... Vylbrand? La Noscea? I cannot recall such names. Though truth be told, I cannot recall much of anything since awakening in these strange surroundings.
By Byregot's beard! You mean, you've lost your memory!?
I remember...my name is...Iroha. I am training in the way of the glaive, though I feel I am still a novice. Before awakening here, I was on a mission to...to...
<sigh> Forgive me. It is hard to make sense of what little I can recall. The only clear thoughts in my mind are of Master, and a powerful technique I labor to perfect─Amatsu: Kyori.
I am certain it is essential to completing my mission.
Hmmm. Interesting you'd remember training above all else. Perhaps that's the key. If you continue to practice your master's teachings, it stands to reason other related memories might come back to you.
Recalling my mission by first recalling Master's teachings... Yes, that does seem plausible. I do not doubt many of the techniques I learned have a specific purpose. It would only be a matter of focusing on this particular one.
(This is the scoop I've been looking for! A Far Eastern warrior on a special mission? What if we're in danger? This isn't some faerie tale like Petyr's story. People need to know! But she's no good to us if she can't remember anything. Help her so we can get to the bottom of this!)
Here, take this map before you go. Training won't do you any good if you get lost now, will it?
Your kindness is greatly appreciated. Thank you. To journey alone in this strange land would be a trial all its own, I am sure.
Hmmm... Might we explore the shore south of here? I recall mention that the beach was an excellent place for training. Something about the aquatic wildlife being suitable for sparring. If the creatures here are similar, I would like very much to try my hand against them.
And I trust you'll ensure she has every opportunity to do so. Now, don't let me keep you. The sooner she remembers her mission, the better.
When she's had her fill of combating critters along the coast, perhaps you should rest in Limsa where it's safer. Bulwark Hall should do nicely. It's the first place she'll see after coming through the gates.
If she's gone south of Costa del Sol, no doubt she'll be near Gullperch Tower. Now remember, if she remembers anything─and I mean anything─I want to know about it. But no need to rush. When she's finished here, you can take your time to talk with her at Bulwark Hall.
Hyaaa!
Hyah!
Take that!
A million souls sing to me!
Ever shall we rise!
I will not fall!
I believe that will suffice for now.
Fighting alongside such a seasoned warrior has been educational.
I am grateful that you chose to accompany me.
Training at the beach was invigorating. It has been too long since I enjoyed such sport, fighting alongside one so well versed in the arts of war. I would like to think I improved my form by following your example.
At first I doubted crabs would be suitable for practice, but I was quite wrong. Testing my strength against their hardened shells, swing after swing, over and over again. I could easily spend days or even weeks at a time battling them. <sigh> If only I could remember who suggested this training regimen.
Oh my, what a peculiar stone. I sense something within it. Something...familiar. Something dark...
A grueling battle in the cold against evil made manifest. A lord of shadows, long dead yet somehow resurrected. The fate of the realm hanging in the balance. I remember!
And yet... I am not convinced these visions relate to my mission. Why would Master entrust me with the means to slay such a foe?
The answers must lie within my memories. They have to. All the more reason I must hurry to complete my training, and perfect Amatsu: Kyori.
While waiting for your arrival, I asked a couple of travelers from...Gridania, I think, where I might find creatures of a more dark and unusual nature. They told me of a place called Haukke Manor. A cursed estate whose grounds play host to various sorts of hellish monsters.
These creatures sound like promising opponents, full of the fury and cunning I would expect in a true battle. Now then, let us be off. When we are finished, we can meet in the nearby town.
So she's beginning to recall her past, eh? Excellent! It won't be long now before I have my story.
You say she plans to slay voidsent near Haukke Manor next? Well, they're certainly more of a challenge than the crabs near Costa del Sol. You keep a close eye on her, okay? If she's not careful, she's like to lose more than her memory.
These demons... They call to mind another old story.
To surpass his limits, a great samurai once fought such fiends...
Perhaps by defeating these demons I can do the same.
It would seem we have driven them back.
Alas, I could scarcely match your pace. This will not do.
There must be a way for me to improve more quickly...
Thank you for once again aiding in my training. To witness such majesty and grace on the battlefield is truly inspiring. It served as a wonderful lesson in combat.
Oh! You have found yet another strange stone. Yes, it radiates with a warmth much like the last, but the color is─ Wait! Do you hear that...?
A long and arduous journey together with a young girl. This vision is not what I expected.
We fought many battles together. And we were not alone. No, I daresay our comrades were well beyond counting. But what business would I, a lowly student, have undertaking such missions? I cannot make sense of it.
Still, I must thank you for this. Before meeting you, I was hopelessly lost. Smothered by a fog of fear and uncertainty. But now I have your light to guide me. You have brought me yet another step closer to completing my training and unlocking the memories still dormant within me.
After speaking with a few of the patrons here before you arrived, I believe I found the perfect place to continue honing my skills: the Sagolii Desert.
If what I was told is true, a creature of unspeakable terror roams the sands. They say its strength is impossible to gauge, as no one lives to tell of its great might. But together, I believe we can lay the beast low. When we have finished, we can take a hard-earned rest in Ul'dah.
Word spreads fast, friend. I heard not long ago of your exploits near Haukke Manor. I take it then that Iroha is well on her way to remembering her mission.
But if she's going to the Sagolii Desert next, you'll have to be careful. I need her in one piece if I'm to have that story.
Look! Over there! Could it be...?
I know that fiend. Those jagged pincers, dripping with venom...
It is Serket, an infamous beast and slayer of countless men.
Come! Let us bring an end to its legend and see ours grow in its wake!
To think that we managed to defeat such a foe...
And yet...I find that there is something within me still wanting.
<sigh> I must find a way to overcome this. I must find my way home.
There are no words to express my gratitude for your assistance. Never in my wildest dreams did I imagine confronting the legendary Serket. If not for you, I would be but one of the countless victims who succumbed to its poisonous sting.
Another stone. Yes, it comes to me now. A mortal struggle... Forbidden magicks uttered in a final bid for salvation...
It all makes sense now. The pitched battles, the arduous journeys, the fellowship of adventurers...it was not my life that I recalled, but rather, the tales of a great hero I mistook as myself.
I suspected such feats were too extraordinary to be my own, and the memories held within this stone have removed all doubt. They were of a journey into the past─one that revealed a horrible truth I dare not repeat aloud.
And I remember my home, Vana'diel! It is not some territory or continent, but an entirely different world.
My true memories return to me now, and it is all thanks to you. More importantly, I believe I now understand how to wield Amatsu: Kyori. It should not be long before my path home is clear to me as well. But first, I must see my training to its completion.
While waiting here, I heard unsettling stories of a foul beast terrorizing Bronze Lake. This is the perfect opportunity to put into practice everything I have learned. Today is the day I wield the power of Amatsu: Kyori. After this last endeavor, let us meet in Limsa Lominsa.
Thank the Twelve! Looks like all that hard work has finally paid off. I wish I could see her fight for myself, but the battlefield is no place for a reporter. Make sure to bring her back here when she's done. I have so many questions.
Hahaha, I can already see the look on Petyr's face when he reads my story. I can hardly wait!
On your guard! I sense a dark presence...
There! And it is not alone...
But I am not alone either.
I will deal with the dragon. Pray attend to the eye.
I-I struck true, and yet...it is unharmed!?
I fear I am nearing my limit...
No! I did not come this far to fail now! I will return to my world!
To Master...
The power...it fills me!
The power of Amatsu: Kyori!
Come, Forename. It begins!
At last, my training is complete. And it is all thanks to you.
You were always there to keep me on the path.
I would speak with you more, but not here. Let us make for Limsa Lominsa.
There she is! Just the adventurer I wanted to see. So, where is our maiden of mystery?
You didn't return together? No doubt she'll be looking for you at Bulwark Hall, then. Go on now, I can't write my story if she's waiting around down there.
At last, the power of Amatsu: Kyori is mine to command, and my memories are slowly but surely returning. None of this would have been possible if not for your unwavering guidance.
To think I could have forgotten a mission so vital. My resolve was unyielding, my mind focused on the task before me. In the end, I fear I may have jeopardized all I hold dear.
As I told you earlier, my home is─or rather, was─a world known as Vana'diel.
Try as we might, its destruction could not be forestalled. But fate saw fit to give me one last chance. I was allowed to travel back in time, to escape to the past before the darkness had consumed all.
Together with the heroes of the past, I knew that tragedy could be averted, just as it had been so many times before.
Master was the greatest of them all. A hero without equal, whose grand adventures I mistook as my own memories.
I cannot help but feel I am still forgetting something else important, something that happened to Master... Hmmm, I suppose in time it will come to me.
Before I leave, might we go and speak with Remumu? If not for her insistence, I would have been bereft of your assistance. It would be rude not to extend my thanks to her as well.
I cannot shake the feeling I am once again forgetting something, but I suppose it will not matter when I return. Oh, how I long to once more fight at Master's side.
Iroha told me the good news! Her memory is, for the most part, restored. Perhaps more importantly, her training is complete. If you hadn't come with me to Costa del Sol, I daresay she'd still be swinging at crabs along the beach.
Now that I have you here, I'd very much like to talk to you about my stor─ Ahem, about what you were doing before we arrived. How exactly did you come to be here in Eorzea?
And you say you...went back in time, trying to save your world?
Yes, you have the right of it. No life was spared by the darkness. None save for mine, that is. Fate intervened and I was sent back to the past─to a time where I could find heroes capable of saving Vana'diel.
That is how I was reunited with Master, although at a much earlier time than I anticipated. The last thing I remember is a fierce battle and a strange light. When next I awoke, I was here. To be torn away from Master when I was needed most...my heart feels like it may burst.
How awful. You were close, then?
Master was like family to me, and an exceptional warrior besides. I've spent my entire life striving to become such a hero, and live up to the legends I so fondly remember.
It all began with a stone, or so the story goes. In ages past, a sentient jewel, enormous and beautiful, banished the darkness. Its light filled the world with life and brought forth mighty Gods. The world entered an age of bliss. That is, until the Gods fell into slumber. That world is my home─Vana'diel.
It was home to three great nations─the Kingdom of San d'Oria, the Republic of Bastok, and the Federation of Windurst. Powerful as they were, though, in times of strife, they would turn to a single hero─my master.
Be it a demon of rage seeking vengeance, or a spiteful god our destruction, Master was always there to pull us back from the brink of oblivion.
So long as there is light and life in the world, the legend of Vana'diel's greatest hero will live on.
There is little wonder these stories were the first to spring back to my mind. I have all but memorized them. But no matter how many times I asked, you would always─
Oh! P-Please excuse me. For a moment, when I looked at you, something in your eyes reminded me of Master and I...
Don't worry yourself over it. I imagine our friend here often has that effect on people.
I realize how ridiculous this seems. Anyone in their right mind would think it some fanciful dream. But for me, this world is the dream, and now it is time to awaken.
When next I open my eyes I will be home, in Vana'diel, once more at Master's side. This may be just a dream, but it is one I shall never forget. Thank you, for everything.
...It would seem...I am not yet ready to return. Is this, perhaps, the will of the Goddess?
If it is by Her will, then so it shall be. I vow to work hard every day, to become a warrior worthy of your teachings. Then, when the time comes, we shall meet again. Here, in Eorzea, or perhaps in the waking world.
<sigh> There goes the greatest story I'll never get to write. An adventurer from another world, traveling back in time to save her people. Who's going to believe such a silly tale? I'll leave the flights of fancy to Petyr. But for her sake, I hope she finds her way home, wherever that may be.
Thank you for helping me with that story on Iroha. <sigh> I only wish the information we obtained from it was worth the trouble.
A time-traveling warrior from another world? Who would believe such a thing? There's no way I could proclaim it to be true, but it did make for a nice piece of fiction in the papers. Better luck next time, eh?
