The Ironworks received a request from the Alliance to analyze these devices, and I've been recording everything of interest. Did you notice the labeling?
All the pods are designed to drain the aether of the occupant...save that one right there.
Unlike the others, the interior's been fitted with an array of sensors to measure aetheric wave forms. To what purpose, however, I couldn't tell you.
I know little and less of science, so any light you can shed on this facility's operations would be much appreciated. Forename, shall we start with you?
Taken in combination with the testimonies of Krile and Thancred, I do begin to see exactly what the imperials were attempting here.
The enhancement procedure entailed infusing a single candidate with aether siphoned from a multitude of “supply subjects.”
As for the “master subject”─in this case, Krile─the patterns of her aetheric activity would provide the model upon which they would artificially engineer the candidate's aura.
...In other words, they were trying to recreate Krile's Echo?
I believe so─which would explain our prisoner's present state. Krile is possessed of an unrivaled ability to hear the whispers of the soul, and it seems probable that the procedure engendered the same acute sensitivity in Fordola.
The soldiers who guard Fordola...many of them lost friends and family to the Skulls.
And there's a sentry at her door, night and day. If she can't help sensing their thoughts and seeing their past─
But you don't just see their past─you live it. All the emotions; all the pain. Imagine what it'd do to you. You'd never be the same again.
Indeed. As you may recall, Ysayle was completely transformed by a single glimpse of Hraesvelgr's past.
Fordola has been forced to experience the agony of those whose lives she destroyed. The guilt must be unbearable.
That explains her request to be executed...
Sounds to me like a kind of justice. Regardless, she can suffer on for now. We have more pressing matters to consider.
If the results of these experiments have been relayed back to Garlemald, there will be naught to stop the Empire from repeating the trick. They could give the Echo to anyone─to an entire legion.
We must be ready. We must learn all we can of these godsforsaken procedures─and Fordola remains our best source of information. She'll not be getting her wish. Not yet.
Right...
Keep faith, lass. If you're to convince others to follow you, you must believe what you're telling them. People will respond to passion─but not if it's feigned.
I understand. Thank you, General.
We should leave the Flames to it. Let's go.
<sigh> I go looking for answers about the Echo, and end up getting schooled by Raubahn. Yet more evidence that I don't know what I'm doing. It's no wonder people listen to him and not me.
General Aldynn is a veteran of countless campaigns, Lyse. You cannot compare yourself to a commander of his experience.
I know. But I also know that I couldn't have convinced that mob to give up and go home. It makes me realize how much we rely on his authority...and how much I still have to learn.
I wonder what he'll do when everything here is settled... I mean, it's his homeland. After going to the trouble of winning it back, might he not want to stay?
'Tis a quandary which countless refugees now face: to continue the life they built in Ul'dah, or start again in the land of their birth...
Forename! A moment!
I am newly returned from Ul'dah, with a message from the sultana.
Her Grace desires an audience with you. She understands that you have responsibilities here, but asks that you visit the palace at your earliest convenience.
Well, I must away and attend to other business. Until next time, my friends!
An audience with the sultana! Depending on the nature of her consultation, this might be the perfect opportunity to inquire about the General's future plans.
Yes, we'd all like to know about those, Alphinaud─but not everyone's as comfortable interrogating royalty as you. Take no notice of him, Forename.
Well, the question of how to put the mad king's treasures to good use shows no sign of answering itself. Shall we be about it, Arenvald?
I am at your beck and call!
...And I should be getting back to my own tasks. I'll organize a squad to head down into the ruins, and then start preparing for the big meeting...Oh, send Nanamo my regards, Forename!
And ours too, if you please. We shall see you on your return.
You are expected, my lady. Please proceed.
I thank you for answering my summons in these most interesting times. You have been busy.
The liberation of Ala Mhigo will have far-reaching consequences, and there is a matter upon which I would seek your counsel.
I speak of Raubahn, and his future.
All know the tale of his rise from penniless refugee to member of the Syndicate, and General of the Immortal Flames... Yet though he has come to call Ul'dah home, it will never be his homeland. He is a son of Ala Mhigo.
And now that she is free, I thought it only a matter of time before he sought my leave to return to her. Indeed, I had resigned myself to his loss.
Suffice it to say, I was...greatly surprised to hear him speak so lightly of handing over the reins in Ala Mhigo, and retaking his place at my side.
I will welcome him with open arms, of course─he is my most trusted advisor...and my dearest friend.
But I have known the man a long time, and beneath that steely gaze, I spied a flicker of doubt.
Whether Raubahn chooses to remain in Ul'dah or return to Ala Mhigo, I only wish that he do so with a heart unburdened by guilt or regret.
Yet how can he freely make such a choice knowing how much I depend on him?
It is past time that I learned to discharge my duties as a sultana alone. I must go forth and see my realm with my own eyes, and hear the wind with my own ears.
Might I have your company for a brief adventure?
Wonderful.
Allow me a moment to change into something a touch less conspicuous, and I will join you outside.
What do you think of “Lilira, the merchant's daughter”? This is the disguise I don when I wish to leave the palace and observe my subjects unnoticed.
Ordinarily, Papashan would accompany me, but for this particular outing I need an advisor─not a minder.
And that is why I requested your company. Over the course of your many adventures, you have met people from all walks of life, in every corner of Eorzea, and I would make use of your worldly experience.
Now, let us be on our way. Our first destination is Stonesthrow, just beyond the Gate of Nald.
Look upon this procession of tattered tents...These refugees camp in squalor, at the mercy of the elements and Thanalan's predators both.
The city's mighty walls offer safety, but the streets overflow with people as it is. And unless blessed by the hand of Nald Himself, no refugee could ever hope to afford a dwelling in Ul'dah.
Twenty years have passed since the fall of Ala Mhigo and five since the Calamity, yet the plight of the poor has grown more desperate, not less. As sultana, the blame falls upon me.
...Then my best has not been good enough.
Yes, my authority is limited. And that is an obstacle I must work to overcome...
Shall we press on? I would follow the road to the Unholy Heir.
It was here, in this wholly unremarkable place, that my mother and father met their doom.
I was but a child at the time. My parents were returning from an inspection of our interests in eastern Thanalan when an untimely rockslide crushed their carriage. To this day, it is not certain if the incident was simple misfortune or an expertly planned assassination.
Raubahn once offered to reopen the investigation and bring me the truth he assumed I must surely crave. But I refused.
Even if my parents' deaths were orchestrated by the Monetarists, we could only have brought their hirelings to justice.
The true villains─those who plotted to put me on the throne as a biddable puppet─were ever beyond our reach.
Thus did I plan to strip the merchants of their power and place our nation in the hands of its citizens...quite unaware of the consequences my actions would have for you and yours... I shudder to think how many goodly souls paid the price of my naivety...
But I am no longer a child reciting words with witless obedience, and I will not be used as a pawn in the Monetarists' damnable games!
<sigh> Forgive me my outburst. You are one of the few people to whom I feel I can speak my mind.
Come. Let us return to Ul'dah and visit the Coliseum.
From the moment I became sultana, I found myself thrust into an endless parade of document signing and ceremonies.
For years, I simply signed where I was told to sign, and sat where I was told to sit, blissfully oblivious to what any of it meant. Yet one good thing did come from that ignominious chapter in my life. For it was during an “official” visit to the Coliseum that I first met Raubahn.
The match I had been invited to attend was not at all what I expected. They had pitted the Bull of Ala Mhigo against some dozen or so rival gladiators...
Blinkered though I was, I would not stand for so obvious an injustice, and demanded to see a fair fight, one man against another. And my royal wish was duly granted.
It was not until later that I learned of the gambling ring which had arranged for Raubahn to die on the sands that day.
Regardless, my intervention meant that Raubahn had but a single opponent to dispatch─which he duly did. And when he knelt before me to receive the winner's purse, he swore that he would one day offer me his blade in service.
Surrounded as I was by liars and manipulators, I confess I dismissed it as a pleasant piece of theater.
But as you know, Raubahn is a man of his word. Though it took him another five years of fighting on the bloodsands, he amassed a fortune so great as to buy not only his freedom but a seat on the Syndicate. And then I had my blade.
