Oho, if it isn't MistressMaster Forename!
B-By the gods, she's magnificent! Such elegance, such refinement!
Ah, as you may have heard, we were tasked by the Alliance with investigating the mystery vehicle.
Master Cid himself should be close. If you'll excuse me a moment, I will direct him hither.
Forename! Why am I not surprised that you're here already?
So this is the machine... At a glance, it doesn't appear to be of Garlean make.
The young fellow there─I take it he's the owner?
And Noctis doesn't seem to know anything about Eorzea, you say? Peculiar...
Might he have lost his memories like I did?
Hey, I'm right here, you know? Now, if you're done talking about me─you're Cid, right?
Not quite the Cid I was expecting, but if you can fix the Regalia, then it's all good.
I will be honest with you: this is technology I am unfamiliar with. I can't make any promises, but I will try my best.
Appreciate it. There's...er, just one little problem. I don't have any money.
Never you mind that. To be able to work on a unique machine such as this is its own reward.
Seriously? You're a lifesaver!
Oh, and Forename. I trust you also heard about the mechanical soldiers.
We're tasked with investigating them as well. By all accounts, they appear to be simply men, albeit armored head to toe and bearing advanced firearms. What betrays them is the unnatural efficiency with which they move.
Sounds like MTs to me.
Em-tees?
Magitek troopers. Robotic soldiers created by the Niflheim Empire.
Come to think of it, the last thing I remember is being at a Niff base. It's kinda hazy...but there was a strange machine. And before I knew it, I was here, in this place you call Eorzea.
That's quite an unusual tale, but then again I'm in the presence of unusual technology. I have no reason to doubt your words. You may have inadvertently activated a teleportation device and been sent to our world.
At any rate, you seem to be acquainted with these mechanical soldiers. Perhaps you could investigate in our stead? They were most recently sighted near the Unholy Heir, not far to the east of here.
Hmmm... If they really are MTs, they might hold some clue on how to return home...
Alright, leave them to me.
W-Wait!
It wouldn't do to leave our visitor to wander a strange land alone. Could you accompany him, Forename? Rest assured I'll tend to the Regalia in the meantime.
This oughta be the right place.
Oh, hey. Curious about the MTs too, are you?
Huh, then what're you doin' here?
C'mon, then.
Let's find us some MTs.
Where are those scrapheaps?
There they are!
Hah!
It's over!
Come get me!
You're going down!
Yah!
They brought the big guns too!? Gimme a break...
Try this!
That's all she wrote.
Hmmm, no clues here... Guess I'll keep looking.
MTs, just as I thought. And a magitek armor to boot. They must have crossed over when I did.
But I couldn't find any clues on how I might cross back. Gah, what am I supposed to do now?
That old geezer? Well, he did seem to know his stuff.
A reporter? That's...actually not a bad idea. She's bound to have loads of connections.
You're coming along, right? Let's go check in on the Regalia.
The mechanical soldiers of rumor─some people say they're a new type of imperial weaponry. Well, there's only one way to confirm this: we take one apart! For science!
So, how fared you? Were you able to find the mechanical soldiers?
You fought them!? So the rumors were true...
That being the case, I would very much like to examine the technology with my own eyes.
I have a favor to ask, Forename. The next time you encounter these soldiers, could you salvage their parts?
Ahem! MistressMaster Forename, may I ask that you bring said parts to either myself or my colleagues in the three city-states?
We will pass them along to the chief─after he has completed his long list of outstanding tasks!
Hey, where's my car?
Don't worry, she's in a safe place. A reporter came sniffing about while you were away, so I decided to move her to the Dispatch Yard that we might carry out the repairs undisturbed.
I'm pleased to say I was able to identify the problem, and I believe it can be fixed. However, it may take some time to fashion the replacement part.
I see. That's good to know.
<gasp> You must be the mystery man!
Ooh, I'm no fashion correspondent, but I like your look! A simple silhouette with an emphasis on the details!
What's the deal with you?
Ah, where are my manners? Kipih Jakkya, reporter for The Raven, at your service!
You are the owner of the mysterious black vehicle, yes?
What, you mean the Regalia?
The Rega... I beg your pardon?
Re-ga-lia.
Ah, so that's what she's called! A stately name!
She's like nothing anyone has ever seen in Eorzea. May I ask where you hail from and how you came to be here?
I'm from...far away. I was on a journey. We were fighting. Then suddenly I was here.
I really need to find my way back. There's so much I have to do...
A mysterious young man, come from another world, desperately seeking a way home... A promising premise! Now then, may I ask what manner of journey you were on?
Well, I was traveling with my friends. We were on our way to meet...someone important to me.
Someone important to you? Could you please elaborate on the nature of your relationship with this individual?
H-Hold on just a second. You're not the only one with questions, you know. I've got loads of my own.
Well, sir, The Raven has many eyes and ears, and I would be happy to call upon them all for the answers you seek─if you'll agree to grant me an exclusive interview!
Yeah, sure, whatever.
Then it's settled! If you would accompany me to Ul'dah, we may continue our conversation while I put my connections to work.
I'll begin working on the replacement part for the Regalia, but it will take a while. Feel free to go about your own business in the meantime.
Whew... That wasn't an interview─it was an interrogation.
Noctis was very cooperative, and I have lots of juicy morsels for my feature article. Lest you wonder, he was on his way to meet his beloved fiancée.
Will the two sweethearts be reunited? With such a timeless tale of romance, the next edition of The Raven is certain to fly off the stands!
C-Come now, don't look at me so. It's been so long since I last graced the front page. And as promised, I will help Noctis find the answers he seeks.
I've already put the word out to my colleagues, and I expect to hear back from them any moment now.
Ah, speak of the devil!...Yes, Kipih here. What do you have for me?
...Truly!? Thank you so much!
See, what did I tell you? We have a hopeful lead!
We'll need to take a little trip together, the three of us. See to your preparations and let me know when you're ready to depart!
Ready to depart? Excellent! Our destination is the Twelveswood─more of those mechanical soldiers have been sighted there.
To be sure, my colleague only heard the rumors. I suggest first heading to Gridania and seeking out the witnesses.
Sounds good. Let's get going.
Ah, wait! New as you are to Eorzea, you may struggle to find your way around. Permit me to show you to Gridania.
Alrighty. Lead the way.
