We'll depart once the contingent has finished its preparations.
I'm told the airship pilot has been sent to meet you.
Ah, there he is!
All right, this is where we go our separate ways. Do be careful, won't you?
I modeled your clothing on what Alphinaud and I wore when we journeyed from Lord Haurchefant's “Falling Snows” to Ishgard for the first time.
In those days, I barely knew one end of a sewing needle from the other, and as you've always had very...individual tastes, I let you pick your own outfit.
I'd like to think my skills have improved since then─but do you know what's more important than skill? Heart and soul! There's plenty to be found in each and every one of my works!
It's an honor to finally meet you! We of the Garlond Ironworks will be ferrying you and your contingent across the mountains and into Garlemald.
For many of us, it will be something of a homecoming. Our illustrious founder was only our most notable imperial defector.
For that reason, the company is committed to the success of this expedition.
Our resources are at your disposal, and if there is aught we might do to be of further assistance, please do not hesitate to ask!
If you are ready to depart, I will ready the engines.
Ilsabard...divided in twain by a vast mountain range.
Those who would traverse its jagged peaks face peril at every step. But why go by foot when one can simply fly?
On the outskirts of the imperial capital, in the frozen wastes of the Magna Glacies...
The winds howl in icy protest, as if to warn against further trespass...
We've received word from Thancred's reconnaissance party.
They have sighted a detachment of heavily armed imperials.
Survivors of the civil war, perhaps?
Perhaps. But there is more to it than that...
Maxima reports that they are led by Vergilia, legatus of the IIIrd Legion, which comprises the bulk of their number.
However, they are also joined by several members of the Ist.
From what I recall, the IIIrd Legion fought for Nerva in the war of succession following Varis's death.
The Ist, on the other hand, were under the direct command of the Emperor, and rejected Nerva's claim to the throne. These legions were enemies.
Indeed. In fact, our sources claim that it was a conflict between them that sparked the civil war.
Yet now these former foes cooperate to defend a ruined Garlemald from invasion...
Then it is all but certain they have been tempered.
So what's the plan? If me and my crew was out reavin', we'd charge straight in, no messin' about. But that ain't what we're here for.
Quite right. Soldiers or no, they are people of Garlemald. The very ones we have come to aid.
Direct confrontation is unavoidable. Nevertheless, we must make every effort to limit casualties on both sides. Rather than kill them, I would remove them from the field.
How so? Savage beatings, disarmament, and imprisonment?
Not impossible, but easier said than done in the heat of battle.
Having observed the opposition, I imagine Thancred had something to suggest?
He did. He and the other scouts have already infiltrated a supply depot some distance beyond the imperial detachment's current position.
Stored within is a stockpile of magitek armaments, and once we give the signal, Thancred's team will destroy them all. In so doing, we will deprive frontline troops of materiel, and likely force the detachment to send men to investigate.
Divide and conquer... Not a bad idea.
Once the scouts have finished their preparations, we will split into two groups.
The first will form the vanguard, while the other brings up the rear with our supplies.
As for the Scions, I ask that you lend your assistance where you deem it needed most.
I would prefer, however, that you accompany the rear guard, and be prepared to join the van at a moment's notice. Kept in reserve as our trump card, so to speak.
I would prefer, however, that you accompany the rear guard, and be prepared to join the van at a moment's notice. Kept in reserve as our trump card, so to speak.
Your proposal was well received. More specifically, they asked that we “destroy the imperials' toys in as spectacular a fashion as possible.”
Y'shtola always did have a flair for the dramatic. She's not an easy woman to please, but I shall do my best to satisfy her thirst for fireworks.
All right. Once more, for my peace of mind.
Our first objective will be to rig the enemy's magitek with explosives. After we've withdrawn to a safe distance, we'll detonate them remotely.
Our second will be to issue a deactivation command to the automated units via the control terminal. If our calculations are correct, this signal should reach those deployed on the front line, giving our friends a much-needed upper hand.
The blizzard will help us stay hidden, so let's aim to get in and out before it passes. Trust in the plan, and we should all live to see tomorrow.
In the meantime, I will relay messages back and forth as the situation unfolds. You'll forgive me if I ask again, but...are you certain you wish to play the lone wolf?
Wouldn't have it any other way. Call it foolish and reckless if you like, but I'll get the job done. I always do.
Very well. I wish you the best of luck.
Assuming there is nothing else you wish to confirm, we may commence the mission as soon as you are ready.
Keep your wits about you!
It's time. We only have one shot at this, so let's make it count!
Glory be...
Must...bar the way...
No...farther...
Two on the gate... Could get messy if I'm not careful.
Woof?
Seven hells...
Seven hells...
An intruder...
Our hated foe...
Must kill...
Must kill...
Must kill...
Dammit!
No, not yet...
Not like this...
Damn, spotted!
Must be losing my touch...
Hnnnh...
Ahhh...
One guarding the controls. Time he took a nap!
Now to set the explosives. Best keep quiet...for now.
