M-My lady, I...I swear to serve the Empire! To do...whatever is asked of me...and never disobey...
Well said that man. Of course...it wouldn't do to simply take you at your word.
Kill him. Surely you can do that much? He must be guilty of something or other, or he wouldn't have attempted to flee the Empire.
I...I have a family... Kami forgive me... Kami forgive me...
Very, very good! I've always had a soft spot for men like you.
Next, I want you to shoot those two over there. Too old to work, you understand─a burden on the Empire, and we can't have that.
But...they're my parents. You can't expect me to...
Stop and think for a moment! If you go charging in now, every one of those villagers is as good as dead!
She's right. They would simply take the villagers hostage.
We must consider the wider picture. If we act recklessly, we risk alerting the Garleans to our presence here, making it that much harder for us to work with the local rebels─to say nothing of the reprisals ordinary civilians would be made to suffer.
Open your eyes, girl─they are already suffering! Let me go─I am putting an end to this madness!
I will approach the village alone and identify myself. As a former leader of the rebellion and a known fugitive, they will wish to detain me until they are certain they have learned all I know. Use this time to make your plans!
You saw what those monsters did to the villagers! Who knows what they'll do to you─assuming they don't kill you where you stand!
We live and die at the pleasure of the kami. My fate is in their hands, and no other's. If it be of any comfort, I am no stranger to chains.
You can't expect us to stand idly by as a comrade goes marching off to his death! And this is nothing like Kugane!
...Nor is it like the Reach, Lyse─or the Wall. Let him go.
Hold out for as long as you can, but remember: noble sacrifices are to remain an absolute last resort. I wish I could say it won't come to that, but only the gods know how we're going to get you and the others out in one piece.A miracle, perchance...
A great tower stands to the north and east. Look to its occupants for aid and succor. Together, you may yet find your miracle.
Now, leave this place. I must go.
Tsk tsk... Another idiot like all the rest. I'm beginning to think it may be something fundamental, something intrinsic, something quintessentially Doman to ignore the simple truth: you can't do a damn thing if you're dead.
Enough, Yotsuyu!
Well now...this is a surprise.
Hear me, Yotsuyu: cease this farce, here and now, and I shall surrender myself to you. Refuse, and all shall answer to my blade.
...Bring him to the tavern.
I hate it as much as you. Maybe even more. Every fiber of my being was crying out to intervene, but...
But what's done is done. Gosetsu's gamble has gifted us the time we need to find a solution.
He bade us seek aid at the distant tower, yes? For want of a better idea, I say we do just that─while taking care to avoid the imperials.
We seem to have evaded their patrols so far...
What is that tower, anyway? I've never seen anything like it.
According to my map, we are on Onokoro, and the tower is known as Heaven-on-High. A mysterious structure built long ago by persons unknown...
Oh gods, listen to me. I'm starting to sound like Alphinaud. Next thing you know, I'll be saying things like, “As you are doubtless already aware...”
Hm? Over there! Do you see it?
Hmm... Doesn't look like it's been dead long.
Whoever did this, they're a good shot. I can't see a single stray arrow.
Well, someone's hungry! Wait...that wasn't either of you two, was it.
Calm down! We had nothing to do wi─Wait, what am I doing? They can't possibly understand us.
Probably not, no...
Time to run, Lyse! We save our strength for any that give chase! You too, Forename!
Just imagine if they'd taken us by surprise. What a fine ending that would have been to our story...
Anyway, I think it's safe to assume that the people at the tower know how to defend themselves. You'd have to, sharing an island with these things. Now all we need to do is convince them to help us!
Ohh...there's a settlement here! And they've even got their own aetheryte.
Wait a minute... I've seen that standard before. It was when we met with Tansui. Which means this place belongs to... Oh.
It would seem we have found a Confederate settlement─mayhap even their headquarters, judging by the size of the place.
So Gosetsu bade us seek out the Confederacy for aid and succor. The selfsame Confederacy that refuses to openly oppose the Empire.
...Well, nothing ventured, nothing gained, I suppose... At the very least, they're unlikely to ask us for the tithe.
What wind brings you hither, of all places? Were you not bound for Othard's shores?
...I see. I trust you have not forgotten our previous conversation on the subject? No? Then what do you want, a second opinion? Very well.
Come with me. I will take you to the captain─Rasho.
...Just like that? An audience with their leader? How very accommodating. We must needs choose our words carefully.
You leave it to me! I've always been good with people. And this will also give me a chance to use the eastern greeting they showed me in Revenant's Toll!
Greetings! Y-You must be Rasho, leader of the Confederacy and...so on... I realize this is all a bit sudden, but...the thing is...we have a little favor to ask...
...Oh gods, I've probably broken half a dozen rules of Far Eastern etiquette already... Well, I'm sorry about that, but you have to understand that we're in a hurry, so...I'm going to stop talking now.
