The dragons─ They are withdrawing! Victory is ours!
One of Nidhogg's greatest champions...slain. The Horde will not soon recover from this blow.
But what of you, Nidhogg? Why did you not join your minions and make of this battle a slaughter? Have you grown so fond of the stench of your lair?
Mayhap you prefer to have your allies fight your battles for you... You have a girl to do your bidding now, do you not? No matter. I shall slay Iceheart, and all the rest...
...But I yearn to spill the blood of a great wyrm, Nidhogg, and only your death will sate my lance.
Phew, that was exhausting...
'Tis a rare opportunity to find oneself confronted with so terrible a foe. Rarer still to emerge victorious. I should hope we need not contend with more of Nidhogg's champions.
The famed dragoons of Ishgard commanding the skies of battle was truly a sight to behold.
It was a close victory, but a victory nonetheless. I think we have earned a brief respite.
Forename! The dragons are routed! Lest you wonder, the fighting at the Steel Vigil was also fierce, but my Crystal Braves were not found wanting!
Commander Leveilleur, Forename... True to your word, you arrived to aid us in our hour of need.
On behalf of the Holy See and the people of Ishgard, I offer you my humble thanks.
Though I would stay and lavish you with well-deserved praise, I fear I must away to oversee the aftermath of the siege. Not all the dragons are fled, and there are yet wounded to be carried from the field. Pray let us meet anon that I might express my thanks with the proper courtesy.
We have indeed achieved a victory of singular importance.
With the Dravanian Horde thus weakened and scattered, the threat to Ishgard has been greatly diminished.
And, mayhap equally significant, the Holy See must now recognize the necessity of cooperation with foreign powers.
Long have they barred their gates against the outside world, but I am confident that the day will soon come when Ishgard proclaims itself a member of the Eorzean Alliance once more.
Much have we sacrificed in our struggles against dragons and primals, the Ascians and the Empire. But, step by unfaltering step, we march ever nearer to our goal.
And, as ever, the journey is made with you in the van.
The victory you have won this day gives us greater hope for the morrow.
'Tis a hope that shall sustain us in the days to come, and bear us past the many evils that yet seek to hinder our progress.Yes, we have done well, my friend, and I, for one, would take a moment to savor the enormity of our achievement!
...The demands of duty, however, allow me little time for levity. I must accompany Captain Ilberd back to Ul'dah, and reassign those Braves whose squads suffered heavy losses.
You, my friend, have earned a rest at the Rising Stones. Pray return to Revenant's Toll, and share your tale with Minfilia in person.
We will see to informing the other nations of what took place here. Do be sure to give our regards to Minfilia.
Forename! Welcome back!
Alphinaud sent word of the siege. And, of course, of the role you played in ending it.
Your deeds never cease to amaze me, Forename... Thank you.
You must be weary, Forename. And now may very well be your only chance to─
Antecedent!
A messenger from Ul'dah arrived with a missive for you.
...The royal seal. Curious indeed...
...Ah. An invitation.
“On behalf of the Council of the Eorzean Alliance, Her Royal Majesty Nanamo Ul Namo invites the Scions of the Seventh Dawn to attend a feast at the Royal Palace of Ul'dah...in honor of Ishgard's recent victory.”
It would seem we are to be recognized for our part in lifting the siege─you, for your valiant efforts as commander of the adventurers' contingent, and the Archons for their earnest attempts to rouse the city-states.
Truly, I find it strange that the Alliance leaders should think themselves deserving of a place at such a celebration.
All three refused to deploy their standing armies, preferring to send hastily assembled companies of sellswords, many of whom perished ere the siege began. Are they truly so brazen as to seek to share in the glory of your triumph?
Ah, but mayhap they simply seek a pretext to meet with the Ishgardians while the mood is yet jubilant... Such an occasion would present a fine opportunity to press for Ishgard's return to the Eorzean Alliance.
<sigh> We have scarce had time to mourn Moenbryda, and I, for one, am in no mood to carouse. But I suppose we must put away our grief for the good of the realm.
Though you were promised rest, I fear I must insist that you also attend. It would be a strange celebration indeed if the victorious hero were not present. Pray content yourself with the thought that such occasions may bring about momentous change─and this without recourse to bloodshed.
Tataru, if you would do me the favor of contacting the rest of the Scions?
Of course, Antecedent.
And please let me know if there's anything else I can do.<sigh>
Curious... I have never known Tataru to sigh at such requests. Could aught be amiss?
Curious... I have never known Tataru to sigh at such requests. Could aught be amiss?
Tataru? I believe she just stepped outside.
Now that I think on it, she did seem rather preoccupied...
Oh, Forename─it's you. I didn't mean to worry anyone. It's nothing, really...
Well, it's not nothing exactly... But it feels like nothing compared to the towering trials you and the others face every day.
...And that's why I should probably talk to Minfilia before things get any worse! Ah, you always know what to say, Forename! I'm glad we had this little chat!
Yes, Tataru? You have my undivided attention.
I've been hesitant to broach the subject, what with all the recent excitement, but Forename made me realize that there's no time like the present. ...And time is what I'm here to ask you for!
I am not sure I understand. If you wish to be excused from your duties for a time, then you have certainly earned the rest.
...But I suspect that lying abed is far from your intent.
You know me too well, Antecedent. There is, in fact, something I've been wanting to try my hand at.
Along with the adventurers and the Crystal Braves, the Scions are constantly being thrown into dangerous battles and deadly predicaments.
Even Hoary Boulder and Coultenet have been promoted from guard duty to fill our need for competent warriors...
And so it seems only right that I, too, should acquire the power to defend myself! And others, more importantly! When I return, I shall be both your receptionist and your bodyguard!
Whoa─hey!
That's the first time I've almost been knocked to the ground by a Lalafell! I've never seen Miss Tataru so determined. Has aught befell with which I might help, Antecedent?
Ah, not at present, thank you. ...Was there something you would ask of me?
Oh, yes! Pray excuse my distraction. An adventurer who was to join us for escort duty was injured while out on patrol.
And I fear we cannot properly defend the scholars entrusted to our protection without the aid of at least one more guard...
Therefore, I humbly request that another adventurer─of the capable kind, of course─be assigned to our party.
Very well. I shall consider the potential candidates and provide you with a replacement as soon as I am able.
My thanks, Antecedent. I take my leave of you.
The power to defend oneself...? Hmm. Tataru has ever been full of surprises.
Now that I think on it, I do recall Urianger mentioning that she had developed an interest in arcanima...
Mayhap she hopes to gain admittance to the Arcanists' Guild in Limsa Lominsa? ...Yes, that will be the way of it.
Would you be so kind as to journey to the guild and see that all is well? It is doubtless unwarranted─but surely I am not alone in my concern for her safety?
Forename!? What are you doing here?
I didn't mean for her to worry... That's the last thing I wanted.
Putting an end to such worries is precisely the reason I'm here, don't you see?
I, Tataru Taru, shall become a great and powerful arcanist!
And now, at Mistress Thubyrgeim's behest, I must go and complete a special training exercise! Until we meet again!
