Questions? For me? Well, I suppose I have no other pressing duties at the moment...
Greetings, Ismene. My friend here is desperately curious about Chief Hermes, and I was wondering if you might indulge her.
Certainly, Mistress Venat. Anything to be of service!
What do you wish to know?
I would describe him as a quiet man─reserved, you might say─and occasionally somewhat poor with his choice of words.
His reticent nature, however, does not prevent him from carrying out his duties as chief overseer.
The man is a walking archive when it comes to life-forms. He can discuss any species in incredible detail, and is the leading authority on concepts with the power of flight.
...His interests?
Well, he is an authority on flying life-forms, and has expansive knowledge of living creatures in general. Is that what you wished to know...?
How would you describe him as a person? As a colleague?
He is a quiet man—reserved, you might say—and occasionally somewhat poor with his choice of words.
His reticent nature, however, does not prevent him from carrying out his duties as chief overseer.
I hope that answers your question. Was there anything else?
I cannot rightly say... As the chief's personal creation, Meteion has not been subjected to observation and study like other concepts.
So one day, she was simply there. And what do you make of her abilities?
It's no secret that she is a highly unusual familiar. Of late, the chief often makes his rounds with her, like a mother hen raising her chick.
I understand that she is a highly unusual familiar, able to read emotions and communicate directly with one's mind. Exactly how she was created with that talent, however, is a mystery to me.
My apologies. I wish I could explain her nature in more depth, but I've not had occasion to discuss it with Chief Hermes.
The chief may not be the most gregarious individual, but he engages with us as is necessary for everyone to perform their duties. I wouldn't want to intrude upon his privacy for the sake of curiosity...
Though if you wish to learn more about Meteion, you could try speaking with Timaios—another expert in the creation of flying concepts.
He should be conducting his observations on the banks of the stream, somewhere to the east. Oh, and, uh, unless you take a particular joy in rambling discourse, I suggest you keep your questions concise.
I...beg your pardon? I've known Chief Hermes for many years. Though I cannot say we are close, he has never withheld information to the detriment of our duties, if that is what you mean...?
Forgive us, we seem to have veered slightly off course here. Is there perhaps someone else who could tell us more about Meteion?
That would be Timaios. He has a similar expertise with flying concepts, and is more than eager to discuss the subject.
You'll find him conducting his observations on the banks of the stream, somewhere to the east. Oh, and, uh, unless you take a particular joy in rambling discourse, I suggest you keep your questions concise.
We shall keep that in mind. Thank you for your patience and your insight.
Think nothing of it. If there is aught else you need during your stay, please, do not hesitate to ask.
Come, Forename, I think we've taken enough of Ismene's time.
You are a familiar, yes? Belonging to Mistress Venat? You couldn't have been blessed with a finer master.
Our investigation is off to a fine start, wouldn't you agree?
From here, I propose that we split up. I shall continue making inquiries with the resident observers, if you could track down the colleague Ismene mentioned.
Given how you steered that previous conversation, 'tis plain you need no assistance from me.
While I did feel compelled to interject once or twice during that previous conversation, you seem more than capable of drawing forth the answers you seek.
Although I felt compelled to take the reins of that previous conversation, your, uh, “fearless” style of interrogation will eventually lead you to the answers you seek.
All I ask is that you watch your footing around the stream! We can meet back here once you've finished speaking with this Timaios.
I will start from one side of the compound and make my way through, speaking to as many people as I can. We should have plenty to discuss upon your return.
