You! But... Why have you come here? What do you want from us?
I know not who you are to speak thus to your elders, boy, but mine only desire is to be received with the hospitality owed a humble traveler─not the fear and trepidation one might afford a wrathful shade!
What? What are you going on about? Actually, never mind.Just come with me─now!
I don't know who you people think you are, but do you have any idea what would happen to us if you were found in our village!?
Again you address us with unwarranted spite! I have let your impropriety pass until now, but no longer!
Who are you, boy, to speak to me thus? Know you not who I am?
I am Isse of Namai─a farmer, like my father before me, and his father before him. I wouldn't expect a man like you to know who I am─but I know you. We all do!
Lord Kaien's retainer and leader of the rebellion─Gosetsu! Notorious fugitive, wanted dead or alive by the Empire!
Hah hah hah hah hah! Is that what this is all about?
I am hardly the first man to earn the ire of the Empire. Nor will I be the last.
Was not Namai home to brave and true warriors, who fought beneath our banners for king and country?
They fought, and they died. Every last one. And then the imperials came looking for more. Because of them.
They were this close to killing us all─to burning our village to the ground. We've only just begun to enjoy some semblance of peace...
Never again─never again, do you understand!? We've had enough of you and yours! Whatever it is you're plotting, leave us out of it!
...Hmm. Impassioned as his pleas may be, surely he must know that I cannot leave things as they are.
But for now, I shall respect his wishes. We must continue on towards our final destination─the House of the Fierce. Proud headquarters of the Doman Liberation Front.
There is a secret entrance to the north of Namai, by way of a small spring. Come─I will show you!
This way, this way! We must dive into the water!
Have no fear, Forename! It is but a short distance. You need not hold your breath for long!
<pant> <pant> Hah hah hah! How invigorating!
Congratulations, my friends! You are come to the House of the Fierce!
