We were told the satrap has a special guest. Is she not with you?
Why, Master Vrtra! How may we serve you this evening? If you're here for your vessel, I'm afraid we're still tending to it...
No, no, there is no rush. Pray take as much time as you require, and know that I have complete faith in your work.
The High Crucible is home to the finest alchemists. They are the ones who created my bodies, and can provide you with healing as well.
Hmmm... Now that I think on it, you weren't at all surprised when I changed forms. Were you aware of my nature from the start─that I was a soul occupying a vessel not my own?
It's hardly uncommon in our world. When given the chance, many shed their bodies to claim stronger ones.
Oh, you must be the rumored guest! We've been most eager to meet you!
If you have a moment, would you care to stay for some tea? The Sisters know we'd love to hear your tales!
No. I've had enough food for now, and can always obtain more without the need for inane chatter.
Now, now, no need to decline outright. I daresay you are tired, so let us save it for another time and return to Meghaduta. If aught catches your eye en route, do not hesitate to say so.
Artificial voidsent are a concept we understand well, but partial voidsent─now that is something that upends our established theories! I do hope we have the chance to speak with her at length. And perform a few tests, perhaps...
...Some sort of fruit? Pitiful things, though. I imagine you'd need to eat a lot to derive any satisfaction.
These are mulberry trees. While the fruits are indeed edible, more important are the leaves, which we feed to silkworms. Without the creatures, we wouldn't have the silk to make our famous Thavnairian weave.
Furthermore, the bark of the tree also possesses medicinal properties. You would be hard-pressed to find a more useful plant.
Is that so... Aside from food, I wouldn't have considered any other purpose for it.
<gasp> Master Vrtra! And Forename too!
If it isn't young Mehrahd. And that must be your sister, Yahsra. Is all well at the orphanage?
Yes, Your Excellency. The other children are very nice, and we all look out for one another.
