Aye, anything to ensure that we won't have to suffer Medrod's hysteria ever again.
All right, teamwork! That's what I wanted to─wait, I haven't been that bad, have I...? At any rate, I'm all for helping this adventurer. It's the least I can do to repay her for comforting me!
So, here's what I know about the deaths: all the victims were found with their faces torn to shreds.
Among the local fauna, only the scalekin known as ziz could inflict such wounds. That's why some folk are pointing the finger at them.
I somehow doubt that the answer's that simple, but for the sake of thoroughness, we should look into it. Why don't you put down, say, three of the creatures, and see if you can find any proof connecting them to the deaths?
You've already seen to the ziz? Good work, adventurer! So, were you able to find aught to suggest that the creatures are our culprits?
...Nothing? Truth be told, even if there were proof, I wouldn't know what it looked like. Aaanyway, I believe we can safely strike ziz from our list of suspects. Which leaves us with...the masked man and his winged eyeball!
There's something else I heard about the deaths. It appears all the victims have been comely maidens. I'd better watch myself, eh!? Heh heh heh!
<sigh> Unseemly japes aside, there's a rumor been going around. There's some as whisper that, after each victim died, her rancor went into the great big rock southwest of here, causing it to flash and moan.
This bears investigating, I reckon. I'm going to give you a firesand stick to blow off a piece of that crag. The stick doesn't come with a fuse or anything, so you'll have to throw the thing. Once you've torn the rock a new one, bring back some of the fragments, and I'll give them a gander.
Most folk are too scared to go within a hundred yalms of the Rock of Rancor─aye, it has a name. But what's a few vengeful spirits to a dauntless adventurer like you, eh?
...Huh? Why, these are just your garden-variety crystals! 'Tis a bit hard to tell beneath all the dirt and grime, but they're definitely lightning-aspected.
I almost hate to say it, but that explains the flashing and moaning. Nothing to do with the masked stranger. Looks like I've gone and wasted both your time and a perfectly good firesand stick. Oh, well...
There is something you should know. I have been keeping this to myself, lest I worsen Medrod's paranoia, but I, too, have seen the winged eyeball.
I cannot say whether it was coincidence, but my sighting took place precisely the same time as Medrod's. I was heading home after a day of digging when a shadow fell over me.
Looking up, I found myself locked in a gaze with a giant eyeball. I let out a scream at the top of my lungs and ran without once looking back. This happened at the rocky area west of here, in case you had a mind to investigate.
A monstrous banemite appeared...and you slew it!? That creature had long been a scourge upon the folk of Fallgourd!
Intentional or no, you have done us a great service. You have my gratitude!
...But this does make me wonder, was it truly a winged eyeball I saw? Or merely a trick of light combined with blind panic?
<sigh> There've been no promising leads in the murders. I can scarce get a wink of sleep, knowing that the killer is still at large.
Judging by your furrowed brows, I take it this sorry business troubles you as much as it does me.
I had been pondering my encounter. I was uncertain for a time, but there can be no doubt: it was a winged eyeball that I witnessed. It's implausible that I could have mistaken so distinct a creature for a banemite.
But you and I were malms apart. How could we have both seen it at precisely the same time?
What's more, our adventurer friend here had a run-in with the banemite at the very spot you claimed to see that fiendish eyeball. Isn't that right?
There must be an explanation! I know I saw an eyeball with wings─I would wager an apple tart on it!
Oooh, he's serious. But listen, mayhap it's not as mysterious as we're making it out to be. There's no reason why there couldn't be─
<gasp> Gods, of course... There must be more than one of the buggers! Ugh, it's so obvious. But then that means...since there have been repeated sightings of these fiends...then there must be even more victims as yet undiscovered...
