Hm? Yes, I'm Iyaate. And who might you be?
SheHe is my friend.
Could it be...? Goodness, it is!
Elene─
Erenville, yes.
A man grown. You were such a darling little thing as a child.
You know, it's only been three years since last we spoke.
Really? Only three? I suppose it all starts to get hazy after a while, living as long as we do.
Well, this is Iyaate. She's known my mentor since they were children.
Nice to meet you.
Never thought I'd see the day when you travel with company. You really have grown, Elene'shpya!
Alright, alright... I was born Elene'shpya. I adopted a new name when I became a gleaner─one that adheres to eastern Viera conventions─so as to avoid drawing attention.
Given that this is a homecoming, it was only a matter of time before you found out. Nevertheless, I would appreciate it if you would continue using my chosen name.
A homecoming? You know, I've been thinking of paying the old stamping grounds a visit myself. It would be good to see Cahciua again.
She's the finest archer I know, Elene'shpya's mother and mentor. Every time I dropped by, she'd treat us to a veritable feast prepared with fresh game she'd hunted herself.
You're impressive with the bow too, Iyaate. Even among the Shetona.
Oh, I couldn't compare to Cahciua. But her skill at arms pales in comparison to her knowledge of nature.
That's what earned her a place among Gulool Ja Ja's traveling companions, after all.
She was always the inquisitive sort, but her journey across Tural lit a fire in her.
Even after Elene'shpya was born, she often left him in my care so that she could embark on another expedition in search of the unknown.
Oh, how you would cry and beg her to take you along. It must've been hard on you.
Iyaate, please!
What? We're all friends here, aren't we?
No matter how many times he asked, the answer was always the same. “You can come when you prove you're a true explorer.”
Thus did she task me with finding the golden city.
Despite my best efforts, all paths led nowhere. I assumed it was but a dreamer's fancy, a ploy to goad me into experiencing the wider world.
But it was real. And we found it.
You found it!?
As part of the rite of succession. I assumed everyone had heard.
That's amazing! Oh, she'll be thrilled.
And eager to bombard me with questions, no doubt.
Well, we should be on our way.
Thank you so much for stopping by. Give my best to Cahciua.
Help! I need help!
What's that about?
We'll investigate. Please wait here.
Both of you be careful out there.
What do you want?
No doubt these are the infamous local bandits.
Please, you have to help! I've been robbed!
It's Namikka, Wuk Lamat's nursemaid!
Erenville! Forename!
Come any closer and we'll slit her throat from ear to ear!
If you so much as nick her skin, you won't live to regret it.
Oh yeah!?
