There is nothing so perfect in this life as a full glass and an empty schedule. Now, what to order...?
Welcome to Mehryde's Meyhane.
Oh, hello, I did not recognize you at first! Are you here alone? Let me find you a table...
...Ruins beneath the Bounty?
Would you be speaking of the sunken treasure vault? We have one regular─a historian, in fact─who could tell you all about it...
Ah, there he is! Professor Jalheen! I thought I saw him come in.
Although a somewhat private sort, the professor is quick to befriend those who share his fondness for the meyhane's unique beverages.
Offer him any drink from our selection, and he should happily share everything he knows about the vault you seek...and a few other odd bits besides!
Whatever you buy for him is on the house, by the way. If Mehryde found out I took coin from Thavnair's savior, she would have me scrubbing pots for a week.
Keep your purse strings tied, friend! We will cover whatever you purchase for the professor or yourself.
Yes...?
And what may I do for you, my Eorzean friend?
...And where did you hear of such a thing? Eh, I suppose I could tell you about it...except the tale is rather long and my throat is so very dry.
Here we are─one of Mehryde's finest. Enjoy!
Ah, lovely. Bottoms up!
Ah, lovely. Bottoms up!
Well, I certainly wouldn't say no to a drink freely offered.
Here we are—one of Mehryde's finest. Enjoy!
Ah, lovely. Bottoms up!
Ah, lovely. Bottoms up!
That was very kind of you, misssir, but I know when I'm being softened up. What is it that you want from me?
Oho, chasing down that old tale, are you? It does seem to appeal to the adventurous at heart.
Now, where to begin... Might I assume you've heard of Alzadaal? He was khan of the Auri tribe which sailed to Thavnair from the mainland, and a key figure in the history of Radz-at-Han.
His decision to aid the Arkasodara is what ultimately won them the war against the Gajasura, thus allowing our predecessors to lay the foundation for this thriving city-state.
The truly fascinating stories, however, concern his grandson, Alzadaal III, who was known for his deeds as satrap in Radz-at-Han's earlier days.
Some attest that this man traveled to another world entirely, and returned with glittering riches. Others that he brokered an alliance with a certain wyrm of the first brood...
Then there is the tale of the sunken vault─the one you seem most curious about. According to this legend, Alzadaal III claimed a small island somewhere in the middle of the Bounty. There he built a structure reaching clear to the bottom of the sea─a deep and secret storehouse─and locked all his worldly wealth within.
In the centuries since, whenever a natural disaster or hardship befell Radz-at-Han, folk would remember that tale of hidden treasure. Hearty souls would set out to claim their fortune...but precious few ever made it home.
Would you like to hear more? <cough> Apologies, I have a slight tickle in─ Oh, my cup appears to be empty...
I've had but one meager drink, my friend. Surely my learned wisdom is worth a little more than that, yes?
I am a far less fascinating subject of conversation, you may be assured...
<sigh> If you must know...these days I style myself a professor of history, but in my younger years I worked as an alchemist at the High Crucible.
I was blessed with meaningful work, a loving companion, and all was right with the world. Until it wasn't.
Ah, but this is too fine a morning for such maudlin talk. Please, let's have another drink and talk about something else.
Ah, I see we've reached an understanding! You're a sharp one, adventurer!
Another for the professor!
Ohohoho! Today was a splendid day to visit the meyhane!
Ohohoho! Today was a splendid day to visit the meyhane!
Where were we...? Ah—hic!—yes. Those who did return from seeking the treasure vault refused—I mean, flatly refused—to speak of what they saw.
Did this discourage others? Nay! Quite the opposite! Such accounts only served to feed the legend, and the golden lure grew stronger than ever before.
That reminds me of something Azahma was saying—Azahma's a fellow connoisseur of spirituous potables, yes, yes, he is.
Anyway, he was saying that one of his acquaint—hic!—acquaintances went after the treasure himself. Hasn't been seen since he set sail, I hear, but he did have...ah, No, I can say no more.
You seem a generous sort—what kind of man would I be to encourage what is clearly a foolhardy quest? If my words sent you to your death, I could never live with myself.
Is that so? Perhaps it's your turn to tell a tale, then. What manner of dangers have you faced?
...The very edge of existence!? From anyone else, I'd struggle to believe it, but I recognize you now. You're the—hic!—hero of the Final Days!
A drink... I need another drink to settle my nerves... Mihleel! More of the same, if you please!
As you wish... But this one is on your coin, Professor.
As you wish... But this one is on your coin, Professor.
Anyway, you being who you are...I shuppose it wouldn't hurt to share a little more. Thish friend of Azahma's, he was deshperate to buy a treasure map...one which showed the way to the entranshe of...of the vault. Sheems he could only get it from shome merchant, what'sh-his-name...
Bah, I forget. Let'sh drink a toasht to you, my new besht friend! ...Mihleel! More drinksh!
Be right with you!
Your drink, sir.
Ah, marveloush, I am parched!
Ah, marveloush, I am parched!
Weren't we talkin' about Azahma..? You─hic─wanna know where Azahma is? Around thish time, he's ordinr...odarin...often at the...at the usual plashe...
Weren't we talkin' about Azahma..? You─hic─wanna know where Azahma is? Around thish time, he's ordinr...odarin...often at the...at the usual plashe...
Your drink, sir.
Ah, marveloush, I am parched!
Ah, marveloush, I am parched!
Pffft! That...that was water! Did you tell her to bring me water!?
Shtill, that'sh...that'sh probably for the besht. Very kind of you, really. My head will shertainly thank you in the morning...
Ugh, I sheem to have overindulged... I am put in mind of the words of Mashter Jalzahn, “Be wary how much of the drink you shwallow, lesht it shwallow you.”
Forgive me—I will shubject you to no more of these unsheemly—ahem—unseemly antics. If you want to speak with Azahma, well, as I said, we share a taste for the meyhane's fine spirits. He probably came in as we were talking.
I wish you fortune in...finding your fortune.
I wish you fortune in...finding your fortune.
Is that—hic!—so? Well, I suppose any adventurer worth herhis salt can go and find the place himself, eh!
Is that—hic!—so? Well, I suppose any adventurer worth herhis salt can go and find the place himself, eh!
Perhaps I should find myself a new pastime...
Ugh, I think...I think I had one too many...
The professor was able to help you, I hope?
