I shall aid you as best I can.
Forename! To my side!
No more lives will be lost to my folly!May my songs envelop and protect you!
Forename! You must not fall!Hear my song, and be invigorated!
Forename. Without you, I would not be standing here this day. I thank you from the bottom of my heart.
Forgive me, my friends. I have kept you waiting overlong.
The Keeper be praised... I...I can wield a bow once more...
It was you, young one, who helped me to remember how.
I had known this for some time, but your presence is as a salve for the wounds of my soul. Your coming has delivered me from the nightmares of my past.
My worthy successor. To you I entrust the final piece of the choral attire. Don it, and go forth to fill the hearts of men with courage and purpose.
Though the seasons may turn, bending a man's back and dimming his eye, so long as there is life, there is reason to hope. Thank you, Forename, for showing me the truth of this.
With the blood of my comrades upon my hands, to simply draw breath racked me with such guilt as I could not bear. But the time for mourning is past.
I shall take up the bow once more and lend what aid I can to the Gods' Quiver. In fighting for those who yet live, I do my fallen comrades the greatest honor.
Yet another melody resounds within you, I see. Then there is naught more I can impart to you. As equals, let us together give praise to life and all the joy that it brings!
Heed me, O Puissant Althyk! Turn Thee over the hourglass of time, that we might exult in the glory of all creation!
In Thine exalted name we sing, that the living may savor life and the departed know true peace!
I thank you again, Forename. You have blessed this old fool with the gentle touch of salvation.
Eorzea awaits! Go forth now, and inspire endless hope and courage with the beauty of your songs. May we one day meet again.
Ah, my dear Forename. Precisely the woman I wished to see.
You will know that I have been training the members of the Gods' Quiver. Well, the experience has proven most insightful. By taking a keen interest in the development of the younger generation, I feel that my songs have gained in power. And yours could, too, my friend.
If you have a mind to rise to new heights within our art, I invite you to come to Quiver's Hold. There is an individual to whom I would introduce you.
Allow me to introduce you to Sanson, a captain of the Order of the Twin Adder. He is a skilled lancer and a fervent believer in the power of song. As a matter of fact, he now seeks to establish a new unit which incorporates bards.
'Tis an honor to finally meet you, Forename. Jehantel often speaks of you, and highly.
And as you have heard, I seek to establish a new unit. 'Tis my belief that bards would give our forces a tactical advantage. To that end, I went to the Gods' Quiver to request their cooperation.
Alas, they were not receptive to my proposal. Many yet remain skeptical of the power of song, and would sooner spend their time bending the bow than plucking the harp. But I was not deterred.
I scoured ancient tomes and reached out to the moogles to find decisive proof of a bard's worth in battle. And I am pleased to say that my efforts have finally yielded fruit: there exists a legendary song that is said to bring a battle to an immediate conclusion!
The Ballad of Oblivion, 'tis called. And on the condition that I find it, I shall convince the leaders of the Gods' Quiver that mine is a worthwhile cause.
Speaking of which, the meeting is about to begin. I take my leave of you.
He left without giving us the chance to bring up our own business...
Actually, why don't we join Sanson in the meeting? As it pertains to bards, I doubt our presence would be taken amiss. Come, let us go to the Seat of the First Bow.
Jehantel said that you would come. You may enter.
The meeting isn't faring well, I'm afraid. The Gods' Quiver are disinclined to cooperate.
...Once you bear witness to the ballad's power, you will change your mind! I am certain of it!
I must allow, such a decisive way to end a battle does pique my interest...
My investigation has revealed that the song originates from the western reaches of Coerthas. It is my intent to journey there and find it.
As a matter of fact, I have already submitted papers to the Gods' Quiver requesting a bard to accompany me on this expedition.
