I sympathize with your plight, sir, but as I explained the aethersand in question is already spoken for. If you'd like to reserve the next shipment, then I would be happy to accept the funds you've offered as partial payment...
Partial!? Are you saying it's not enough!? I'm already stretching our research budget as it is! <sigh> ...I suppose a man can do without a midday meal for a year or two...
Forename! It's been too long! What brings you here, then? Got your eye on something expensive, have you?
Well, now...that is quite a money pouch. The sound of so many gil clinking together is strangely satisfying, is it not? Calming...and yet invigorating at the same time...
Oh no... You're here for the blooming aethersand, aren't you?
Well, I can't deny the Allagan civilization's a subject worth researching. The chief said he was looking into something big, but we never thought to ask him what.
Wedge and I have been too busy tinkering with a new airship design to think of much else, see. Well, I say tinkering...wrestling would be more like it. Still, after much wringing of hands and gnashing of teeth, we've managed to put together a prototype crystal-powered propulsion system.
We got the idea for it when we heard how you lot had used a corrupted crystal on board the Enterprise, as a matter of fact. Anyway, to cut a long story short, our design calls for all four varieties of aethersand.
And that's why I can't just relinquish my claim on this batch here─even for you, lad. How're we meant to usher in a brave new age of technological innovation if not by technologically innovating, eh!?
Ahem. While I hesitate to interrupt such an impassioned speech, duty compels me to point out that this gentleman is a representative of the organization that reserved the aethersand in question─to mention nothing of the fact that his purse is considerably larger than yours.
...Oh, it's like that, is it? <sigh>
All right, all right...this batch is yours. I'll let you have it. But if you're going to take my sand, it's only fair that you grant me a role in this project of yours.
I'll take that as a yes. Ahhh, it's not every day you get a chance to experiment with the wonders of the ancients. With any luck, they'll inspire me to think up another technological innovation or two!
Now then, from what you've told me, I'm guessing you'll be needing the other three varieties of elementally aspected aethersand as well, right?
Then rather than sitting on your rump waiting for a shipment that may never come, I reckon your time would be better spent looking for the stuff yourself. And it just so happens that I know of a good place to start...
There is said to be a peddler in northern Thanalan who─very occasionally─handles the earth-aspected variety of aethersand. Wedge is in the process of confirming the rumor as we speak.
I know what you're thinking: when did my timid little friend decide he didn't need me to hold his hand anymore? The answer being: just the other day! Seems he's been inspired by a certain adventurer's heroic example. I thought he was joking when he volunteered to go to Thanalan without me. I just hope he manages to stay out of trouble...
Head out to Bluefog and you should find him poking about with his new bodyguard. Oh, did I not mention her? Aye, Wedge thought it might be wise to hire an adventurer to accompany him─just in case your heroic example turned out to be less inspiring than he first thought. Heh heh!
