Oh, Thaffe, I have an idea! What if, once upon a time...
A lovely lady of noble birth ventured forth in search of her lost love, joined by her two most loyal servants, sworn to follow her unto world's end. On their journey, they met a sorcerer, as ancient as time itself. Moved by the lady's devotion, he offered to be their guide, and they...
...turned up here, somehow!
...I can only assume that you're being intentionally obtuse, but in the unlikely event that that's a serious conjecture─no. I suppose I am a bodyguard of a sort, but we have rather larger concerns than faerie tale romances.
Though I would fain hear more of this ageless sorcerer and his heroic deeds...
Gods grant me strength...
Um, if I may─we're actually searching for a means by which to travel to Nabaath Areng. We were hoping that the trolley here might offer a solution.
I realize that we haven't gotten off to the best of starts, but if you know anything about how we might get it working again...
The trolley?
The trolley!
You should have led with that! We're always keen to discuss the trolley!
We're both engineers-in-training, in fact. Jeryk and Thaffe, at your service.
Technically, I'm a miner, and he does repair work. But our true passion is the trolley.
We're working with a few other folks to get it up and running again.
And before you ask─yes, it's true that there's little in need of transport these days. But that's no reason to consign a miracle of mechanical innovation to dust. The mere sight of it traveling the track once again would make hearts soar, mark my words!
You'll hear no argument from us. What progress have you made thus far?
Not as much as we'd like, truth be told.
Well, is there anything we could do to assist you? We could gather materials, or help put pieces together...
It's a sight more complicated than that, I'm afraid. If you spoke with Magnus, you'd understand. He's the only one with full knowledge of the trolley's operation.
I suppose you could speak with him, if you like. We'll introduce you.
Very well. Our options are limited, and if this Magnus can explain whatever is preventing the trolley from being restored, I'd like to hear it.
Right. It looks like you'll be following us back to Twine, then!
If you're ready, we can leave right now.
Though...you haven't seen another fellow around here, have you? I thought he'd have come out by now.
You “think” he'll be all right? That's, er... Well, I suppose we did force your hand a bit.
I'll have a look. Just in case. You go on ahead, Thaffe.
Alright. Looks like it'll just be you lot and me, then. Try not to let anything take a bite out of you on the way out of the rail yard.
Damn, that smarts. Did he have to thump me so hard? I'll be feeling that for the next fortnight at least...
Naught to be done about it now, though. I've pointed your overeager companions in the right direction and they've gone on ahead, so we need to get moving.
Normally we walk atop the tracks, but seeing as the young lady has a much shorter stride, that's more perilous a route than I'm comfortable suggesting. Wouldn't want anyone falling through the gaps.
Of course, the low road presents other dangers, but having been on the receiving end of your friend's blows, I'm not worried on that account.
Wait a moment. I think I hear something...
Oh, that's something, all right! Run!
Out of the frying pan and into the fire...
Sorry about that. I'll admit─I didn't expect this route to be quite so fraught with danger.
We're nearly to Twine, though, so we should make it without further incident.
This is it. Welcome to Twine!
The original dwellings were built to house those laborers tasked with building the track. Over time miners came to seek their fortunes─and that's what made the town grow to what you see before you today. But it was still the trolley that brought them here.
As you've doubtless noticed, the track goes to the very heart of the town. It was the heart of the town, back when the trolley still carried everyone home at the end of each hard day in the mines.
Now there is no trolley─nor much work to be had in the mines, for that matter. The only residents that remain are the destitute, the delusional, and those with nowhere else to go. Or so they say.
That should give you some indication of what to expect when you meet Magnus. As I said, it will help you understand why we can't get the trolley running. Just...don't expect too much aside from that.
Well, that's encouraging. But I don't see that we have much choice. Let's go and meet the man.
