And now comes the part where you say you've got no choice but to divert company resources and employees to this pet project of yours. Lost profits and belligerent clients be damned.
I...er... Financial considerations notwithstanding, you have to admit there is an unquantifiable benefit in giving our people the opportunity to study such advanced technology─
Oh? Is that before or after you blow it up or seal it away? Fine, fine─but the moment I judge this little venture an unsustainable risk to the Ironworks, I'm ending it, savvy?
And to keep you honest, using my authority as deputy president, I've gone ahead and brought in a consultant─a master engineer and mechanical genius!
...You didn't.
Come now, you mustn't build their expectations too high! It will be less dramatic when I surpass them.
Oh. Oh no. Absolutely not. This is not happening.
Nero tol Scaeva, eager to begin his first day as a loyal member of the Ironworks team! Looking forward to working with you, Garlond!
Nero tol Scaeva, eager to begin his first day as a loyal member of the Ironworks team! Looking forward to working with you, Garlond!
Come to see how we're getting on?
We've made good progress since we took back Ala Mhigo, but there's one big issue we still have to address...
Leadership. The Domans had Lord Hien ready and willing to take the throne, but we've got no one like that here.
Theodoric was our last ruler─and he wasn't called the mad king for nothing.
Suffice it to say, our people have had their fill of kings─which means we need to find a new way forward.
If only it were that easy. Everyone and his uncle has an opinion.
For the time being, we're just going to have to keep leaning on General Aldynn and the Alliance for support, and see if we can't find a solution together. Something tells me we're going to be hosting a lot of meetings in the near future...
But if that's what it takes, I'm ready to talk till my jaw aches!
The Reach is yours, Naago. Don't do anything I wouldn't.
Aye, aye, Commander!
Ah, there you are! I've been searching all over for you.
Don't worry, it's nothing bad. That said, this might not be the best place to talk. Will you join me?
I'll get to the point: might you be interested in a spot of adventure?
After all, we were “adventurers” before we were Scions, were we not?
After routing the imperials and liberating Ala Mhigo, I reckon we've earned a bit of respite, don't you? And what better way to spend it than by returning to our roots?
So what say you: shall we call on Alphinaud and go adventuring?
Right then, let's go and find Master Leveilleur.
Actually, leave that to me. I want you fresh for our little adventure. Wait for us by the aetheryte, and we'll be along shortly. See you there!
Greetings, Forename. 'Twould seem we are to accompany Arenvald on some manner of escapade. Have you any idea what we've gotten ourselves into?
Allow me to explain. It'll be something of a history lesson, but I'll try to be brief. No snoring, if you please.
Now, the events I would speak of occurred before the occupation─back when Ala Mhigo was still a monarchy, and Theodoric sat the throne.
A uniquely brutal despot, by all accounts.
That he was. The King of Ruin suffered no rivals, real or imagined, and his dispute with the monks of the Fist ended with Rhalgr's Reach being burned to the ground.
In the latter years of his rule, he was seized by the unshakable belief that unseen forces were conspiring to steal his crown. And so he ordered that every soul with a claim to the throne be executed─including his own family.
The wealth of the poor sods he put to death became the property of the king, and it's said that these royal treasures were hoarded somewhere in the palace. Thus was born the legend of the “mad king's trove.”
Ah. I believe I see the direction our adventure is to take. I assume you have a mind to unearth this hidden bounty?
You assume correctly!
And would I also be correct in assuming that this legend is widely known? Others must surely have gone in search of your prize, tempting as it seems.
Well, of course we won't be the first to make the attempt. Following Ala Mhigo's liberation, more than a few eager soldiers turned the palace upside down in hopes of claiming an easy fortune.
But even after scouring every room from dawn till dusk, they uncovered not a single coin. Their gold-lust drained away as quickly as it had come, and the legend of the mad king's trove remains simply that─a legend.
But I see you have no intention of letting the story end there.
What self-respecting adventurer would!? Imagine: the three of us, delving into a decades-old mystery! Tell me the thought doesn't set your heart to racing!
The news of Doma and Ala Mhigo's liberation has kindled the flames of revolution in every corner of the Empire. I hear the imperial province of Dalmasca has already risen up in rebellion...
...Which means the Garleans must surely have their hands full. What better time than now to indulge in such a diversion? Tell us, Arenvald─have we any clues as to where we might begin our search?
Well, judging by how the other treasure hunters fared, nosing about the palace isn't like to get us anywhere, so...we'll probably need to, uh...ask around.
Would that be another way of saying “no”?
Well... Heh heh heh! Yes.
I see. In that case, I shall pay a visit to the Allied archivists and request access to the records seized from the imperials.
The Garleans are meticulous about such things. If they uncovered the trove during their occupation, the event is certain to have been recorded.
In the meantime, the two of you can track down those who worked as palace servants and officials in Theodoric's day.
Given that they would have been at least twenty at the time, you will be looking for people who have seen forty summers or more. Anything they can tell you about the king and his bloody deeds may prove useful, so be sure to listen well.
Arenvald, pray try your luck in the Fringes and the Peaks whilst Forename makes the rounds in the Ala Mhigan Quarter.
Hah! And there I was thinking I was the party leader. Not that I mind, of course! Let's be about it, eh? We can meet afterwards at Gylbarde's Gate!
