By the kami! You're Lord Hien's─ L-Leave me! Leave me, I beg of you! Say nothing of this! I was never here!
There you are.
Lady Yugiri. Lord Gosetsu. Forgive me my abrupt disappearance.
You have your reasons, I am sure. Will you not share them?
I was...I was her master. When she was yet a courtesan.
By the kami...
She...worked in my establishment.
Her father was a regular client of mine. One day, quite without preamble, he offered to sell her to me. “She may be no maiden,” he said, “but she has some use left in her.”
He sold her short. When I first beheld her, I was struck by her beauty. And yet, behind her eyes, there was...an emptiness. 'Twas as if she had given up on life. She seemed more a doll than a woman.
It was no profession for her, but I knew she would be popular. And so it proved. Men flocked to drown themselves in that cold, bottomless gaze.
The rest you know. She became an imperial informant, and for her loyal service won the office of acting viceroy.
...While you came to serve the Liberation Front.
'Tis said that the atrocities Yotsuyu committed were driven by vengeance. If so, I bear part of the blame for creating the monster she became.
Joining the Front was meant to be my atonement.
But the truth is... The truth is, I am a coward whose only thought was to escape her wrath. Then as now.
...I see. Then I shall recommend that you be assigned to a new post.
I trust you have no objections, Yugiri?
None. It would not do to leave Yotsuyu in his care.
I am in your debt.
Who is it that you seek to protect, Gosetsu?
Idle musings. Pray pay me no mind.
Forgive me, now is not the time for brooding. Come, let us rejoin the others.
I thank you for your help in the search. Gosetsu has told me all that transpired.
I would not presume to defend the life Jifuya led before he joined the Front. Nor will I condemn it. Frankly, it is not my place to judge. I will only say this: the Jifuya I know has ever been a man of courage. That he should feel driven to flee bespeaks the depth of his terror. Even now, Yotsuyu casts a shadow over the realm...
But the question of what is to be done with her must wait. The Empire is on the move once more.
While you were out searching for Jifuya, we received word from our shinobi allies: an imperial airship has been sighted over Doman soil.
Our visitors' objective remains unclear. It may be another attempt to recover Yotsuyu...or a prelude to invasion.
Either way, the craft reportedly advances at speed, and appears bound for Castrum Fluminis. I mean to go there and ascertain their intent.
If we ride out in force, it will only end one way, so we shall keep our numbers to a minimum. Yugiri, Forename─can I count on you?
Yes, my lord.
Alisaie and I would fain play our part as well. We will not stand idly by while a common foe threatens the lands of our friends and allies.
We would be glad of the help. You are acquainted with Hakuro, I believe? Then I bid you seek him out and assist in maintaining order in the enclave.
When the people see an imperial airship, they are liable to panic. I would have you reassure them, and, should it come to it, aid in their evacuation.
Very well. We shall depart at once. Do take care.
What of me, my lord?
The Empire may well be after Yotsuyu. You are to remain here and guard her until my return.
...As you wish. Pray stay close to Forename and Yugiri.
Well, well... Guard duty and not a breath of protest. Now I have seen it all.
To Castrum Fluminis, then. Let us find out what the Empire's game is.
The area is secure. Whatever our visitors' purpose, they plainly believe they can achieve it alone.
The craft should come into view at any moment. Let us await them inside the castrum.
A smoke signal...? Thoughts, Yugiri?
In former times, such signals were used to announce the coming of an emissary of peace─in Doma, at least. But could that truly be their intent?
Who can say?
Whatever they want, we cannot simply blast them out of the sky─not when they were so gracious as to honor one of our cherished traditions. I would not have it said that we Domans want for propriety.
Then I shall go and reconnoiter.
Nay, that won't be necessary. We will meet them openly.
I would welcome this student of Doman history in person, whomsoever he or she may be...
As you wish, my lord. I shall arrange for a signal of our own to be fired in answer.
