Ooh, I can't wait for the flowers to bloom! Perhaps I'll make pretty curtains out of them!
You're done sowing the seeds? Thank you! This shall help Lydha Lran live up to its name─which means “flower house,” in case you weren't aware.
We weren't always here, you know. We used to live deep in a lush forest. It was beautiful beyond compare, but almost all of it was swallowed up by the light.
For a while we roamed, but eventually we found a place that men had abandoned. Together with our fellow fae folk, we decided to make it our new home.
The land of everlasting spring─this is our home, and it could be yours too. Forever and ever and ever...
Unnngh... I'm so hungry I may faint...
Fruit─a little fruit will set me aright... Will you go and fetch some for me?
Just outside the village, you'll find a hillock. Two great belltrees grow there. If you give them a shake, they should render up their sweet, succulent burdens.
Unnngh... So hungry... Did you get the fruit?
Oh, thank you ever so much... You've saved me, hehehe...
Yes, saved me from my boredom! You should have seen the look on your face when the bugs came down! Tee hee hee!
Ahhh, you've done me a great service, mortal. If there's one thing we pixies are serious about, it's having fun!
Dull and painful things? Hate, hate, hate them! Sin eaters are dull and painful both, so we hate them especially!
You mortals try to fight those monstrosities, but there's no fun in that. Best to avoid them altogether, we say!
Mortal, mortal, hear my plea! Our precious children are thirsty, and I need you to bring them water.
Who are our children, you ask? Why, they're the leafmen you see standing about our village. Adorable, aren't they?
Now, you'll need to go to Longmirror Lake to draw the water. Once you have it, see that our children have a good drenching.
Oh, but be warned: the Fuath make their home in the lake. They tend to play rough, so have care!
You've given water to our children? Thank you ever so much!
They're all very dear to us. They wandered into Il Mheg as stray mortals, but we grew attached to them and decided to take them in.
You and yours would've been our children too, but the enchantment didn't catch as well as we'd hoped. It's never too late of course...
How goes it, Forename?
So, a mix of menial tasks and pranks.
Yes, that pretty much sums up my own experience. They have no troubles worthy of the name.
<sigh> How long are we supposed to keep at this? They're clearly playing with us.
Indeed. Whenever I inquire how much more there is to be done, the answer is ever the same: “A little.” I doubt they have any intention of releasing us in the near future.
Urianger once told me a story about the pixies.
They're born from the souls of those who died as children, or so it's believed.
Though they don't have memories of their previous lives, the desire to have fun remains, imprinted on their souls.
And so they live only to play, keeping hapless mortals for their pleasure for years on end. Sometimes even until death...
Hmmm... In the past, when I sought to identify the true nature of ghosts, I came upon literature examining a similar subject.
The soul was likened to a core that resides in the aether, and its presence is what differentiates us from such beings as sprites and arcane entities.
Upon death, said core ordinarily dissipates alongside the aether that composed the flesh. However, it may be held together and bound to the corporeal realm, either by the will of its owner or by means of certain arts.
In time, the soul may regather aether unto itself to assume another form, or find newly emerged life in which to abide. The pixies may be one such instance of this.
...If ghosts are merely souls without bodies, what does that make us? I think you've become that which you fear most, Brother dearest.
However the pixies may have come into being, if we leave them to judge when they are satisfied, they will never be satisfied.
Nay, we must negotiate new terms with the creatures... But where to begin? It seems to me we would need at least one among them to sympathize with us...
In the course of your chores, did any of you encounter a pixie who seemed even faintly amenable to reason?
What? You knew a pixie from before?
Not only are you acquainted, but you've entered into a pact? You might have mentioned this sooner!
At any rate, I dare to hope this will offer us a way out.Without further delay, then, summon this Feo Ul, if you please.
