But in the end, they are only that—savages.Now, let us be brief. His Radiance awaits.
Annia. Take the field.
Very well. I leave the artillery fire to you.
These are no ordinary soldiers...
So, their commanders deign to appear at last!
Commence bombardment, and prepare to strike.
They will not escape.
Impressive. Annia, let us engage them together.
This can't be good... Stay on guard!
They cannot hope to evade us both.
Don't take your eyes off them!
Annia. Fall back.
Very well. Leave the artillery to me.
Ready the ceruleum tanks.
Deploying now.
It seems we have no choice, Julia.
You should feel honored, savages. Few are they who have witnessed this twice.
And fewer still who have witnessed this...
So they mean to play their trump card!
Farewell, savages.
Throw everything you've got at them!
We have served our purpose. Come, we shall withdraw for now.
Their teamwork was quite fearsome, I must allow.
Is it over already?
It seems we've thrown them back.
There you are! And none the worse for wear!
Indeed. I had hoped we might do more to help, but there seems to be no one left to fight.
We did it! I daresay they'll be reeling from this!
You were truly inspiring in battle, my friend. I'm determined not to be outdone, but there seems to be no one left to fight...
A tactical withdrawal, perhaps?
We should give chase. Finish them off while we have the chance.
Imagine the others' surprise when they wake to find the war already won.
The Light...will expunge all life...
Only you...can forestall the calamity...
Throw wide...the gates...
No! Not now... Not...like...
Oh no, don't tell me...
Are you all right?
Quickly! We must get her back to the encampment.
So the Garleans have been routed, have they? Well done.
Though this exchange was no more than a test of our strength, like as not. They won't be taking any chances now that the Emperor has joined the fray. They'll want to take their time─whittle down our defenses...
Still, with your help, and that of our Eastern allies, we've passed the first test. Our line is unbroken.
As for Alisaie...well, she's in good hands over at the infirmary.
My lord─the chirurgeons have completed their examination of Mistress Alisaie, and it is as we feared. She is locked in a slumber without any outward cause.
Just like the others. Damn it all...
Aye...the Garleans picked a fine time to come knocking.
Five Scions incapacitated... And with the enemy on our doorstep, I cannot spare the men to assist in the search for a cure. The best I can do is see to it that Alisaie is escorted safely back to the Rising Stones.
Yugiri and I would return to our encampment. The main contingent of our forces from the Far East is under sail, and all must be made ready for their arrival.
I'll not keep you, then.
Judging by the Garleans' recent movements, or lack thereof, they won't be launching another offensive in the immediate future.
You should return to the Rising Stones. Given the plight of your fellow Scions, I can understand if you feel on edge, but you'll be no good to anyone without rest.
Ah, Forename. Welcome home. Word has it you and Mistress Alisaie gave the Garleans quite a thrashing. Speaking of whom, where is Mistress Alisaie? I was certain she would have returned by now.
By the Twelve, not her too...
Ocher and I will ready the infirmary for her arrival.
We will also need to send a message to Tataru posthaste. <sigh> Would that I had something other than grim tidings to share with her...
And with you too, for that matter. It grieves me to report that the Archons' condition remains unchanged.
As we speak, Coultenet, Krile, and Master Matoya continue to explore every possible avenue. Alas, their efforts have yet to bear fruit.
But all is not lost. You are still hale and whole, after all. Though I suspect you must be tired from your journey. You should rest, my friend. Leave the worrying to us, for the time being, at least.
But all is not lost. You are still hale and whole, after all. Though I suspect you must be tired from your journey. You should rest, my friend. Leave the worrying to us, for the time being, at least.
Ah, Forename. Yours is a welcome face indeed in these troubled times. Though if you've come to inquire about our stricken brothers and sisters, I am afraid I have naught to report.
Coultenet and the others continue their tireless search for answers, and I too have done all in my power to assist them. Alas...
My apologies for the intrusion. I was told Master Alphinaud had been brought here, and wished to see if his condition had improved.
Mistress Forename. I have heard about the part you played in driving back the Empire's forces......Thank you. That you were able to stop them, if only for a short while, gives me hope.
I realize how strange such words must sound coming from a Garlean's lips, but I speak them out of the love I bear for my homeland─because I wish to see an end to the bloodshed.
That is why I chose to share all that I know with the Alliance. Though I will surely be branded a traitor, I am content to bear that ignominy. 'Twill seem a small price to pay if it helps to prevent this conflict from escalating any further.
But enough of my prattling. The war is not what brought me all this way. I came to see Master Alphinaud.
An acquaintance of Forename and Alphinaud, are you? Well, far be it from me to turn away good company. If you will follow me, sir...
When word reached me that Alphinaud had returned, it seemed only right that I visit him. Poor lad... It pains me to see him thus. But I take solace in the knowledge that he is safe and well cared for.
He fought valiantly at the Burn. The Populares could not have wished for a more committed ally.
I know not how he came to be so afflicted, but I pray a cure will be found soon.
On an unrelated note, you may be interested to know that I traveled here in the company of another acquaintance of yours.
He awaits my return at north Silvertear, and I am certain he would be glad to see you. Assuming you can spare the time, that is.
Ah, there you are. I was beginning to think you would not come.
It sounds like you've been through the mill. You should have called me.
Though I must confess, tracking down missing souls isn't exactly within my field of expertise.
As you may have surmised, I heard much of Master Garlond growing up in Garlemald. Indeed, he has long been a source of inspiration to me.
Most Garleans would say he is a traitor, that he turned his back on his country. We of the Populares, however, consider him a revolutionary─a man willing to defy the Empire's dreams of subjugation, that his inventions might bring about a better future for all mankind.
Please─“revolutionary” is a term best reserved for my work. I am but an imperial defector who thought to aid another imperial defector.
Whatever Master Garlond says, I am humbled to find myself in such distinguished company.
Speaking of distinguished company, we heard from Raubahn that you ran into an old friend in the Burn. Is it true? Gaius still lives?
Like most in the army, I never had the privilege of seeing the legatus without his mask. To think I walked halfway across the Burn in the presence of the Black Wolf...
And he claimed to have severed ties with the Empire to hunt Ascians, did he?
Hmph. After his humbling at the Praetorium, one would think he'd have the good sense to stay dead.
Should we meet again, I shall be sure to tell him so.
Commander Aldynn also spoke of the Alliance's meeting with the Emperor...though I still labor to believe what he told us. Did His Radiance really claim that Garlemald was founded by the Ascians?
But that is madness. The very notion is absurd! Every fiber of my being rails against it... And yet I see there is no escaping the truth. From the very founding of my homeland, my brothers and sisters have laid down their lives in service to a lie.
The Ascians must be stopped. To save my people, to save all peoples.
For all the Empire's many crimes, even I did not suspect. Had I known, I would have left a lot sooner.
But that is in the past. Here in the present, we must apply ourselves to the problem of how the Empire's ambitions may be thwarted, not only in Eorzea, but in the Far East as well.
The Ironworks will spare no effort to achieve that end. Seiryu's Wall was a good start, but we can do more─and we will. We'll show them what it means to achieve “Freedom through Technology”!
Begging your pardons! I bear a message for the Warrior of Light!
Commander Aldynn requests your presence at Alliance Headquarters in Ala Mhigo. He would discuss matters of strategy at your earliest convenience.
Ah yes. The inevitable messenger. I knew it wouldn't be long before duty called you away.
Time no doubt being of the essence, could I tempt you to a ride aboard the Excelsior? If there's a faster way to Raubahn's side, I will personally apologize to the commander for keeping him waiting.
I swear, every time you board my airship, you seem to be barreling headlong into danger. And every time, you somehow contrive to emerge victorious. Which, of course, is an admirable skill.
But no one is invincible, Forename. Not even you. So please, take care of yourself out there.
I pray you remain safe on the front lines. Though ill-equipped to join the fray, I shall do all I can to assist from headquarters.
My colleagues and I have been tasked with evacuating casualties by air. See that you aren't among them, eh?
Commander Aldynn is waiting, my lady. It would be best if we proceeded to Alliance Headquarters at once.
Are you ready?
You're here. Good. I summoned you to discuss strategy, but first I would apprise you of the Garleans' movements.
There have been several skirmishes along the border, but as yet, neither side has delivered a decisive blow.
We had long assumed that the Garleans would overwhelm us in a straight fight, but we seem to be gaining ground, albeit slowly.
As to why that might be... The most likely explanation is that they have yet to commit all their forces. Still, we're winning, and our latest intelligence suggests the Emperor has retreated back to Garlemald.
In light of this, we're considering launching an offensive, with the aim of pushing the front line forward, and giving ourselves some room to breathe.
