Garleans!?
Traitors to your homeland! Have you no shame!?
I am Lucia Junius, a Temple Knight of Ishgard. And you are?
Jullus pyr Norbanus. And that's all you invaders will get from me.
We are not here to invade Garlemald. Far from it.
Like you, our allies in Eorzea and the Far East fight in defense of their lives and their loved ones, even as we speak.
But it is the people of Garlemald who have suffered most. This we know. And that is why we have come to offer you our aid, that we may unite against our common foe.
Whether you believe me or not, those are the facts. Now, answer me this.
Why would a proud soldier of the Empire be reduced to stealing? The situation must be dire indeed for you to go to such lengths.
If it is supplies you seek, we would gladly share ours. Or turn a blind eye while you leave with your “spoils.”
I will not negotiate. My commander will determine how to deal with you and yours.
If you wish to treat with him, I will take you. But no more than three.
I don't much like the sound of that, but if we do accept his proposal, I suggest the two of us and...
Please allow me and Alisaie to act as envoys.
May I ask why?
We have seen with our own eyes the hardships the Garleans face. How their futures and lives hang in the balance.
It's not the warmest invitation, but it's an opportunity to prove our intentions true. Maybe not a chance to make things right, but a chance to...make them better.
I can see that persuading you otherwise is a lost cause. But you will proceed with the utmost care.
A couple of children and what─a sellsword? Is this an insult?
Not in the least. You will find that they are more than qualified to speak on our behalf.
There are many dangers on the road ahead. I will need that back.
Perhaps it is unwise to volunteer for a mission so soon after the previous disaster... Nevertheless, I shall not squander this opportunity.
I know, I know. This won't bring back Licinia or her sister.
Taking the same risks, making the same mistakes... It's possible, but better to try than to give up. Every time.
I worry they were not in the best state of mind to volunteer for this undertaking, but what's done is done. I know you will take good care of them─and yourself as well, I trust.
They are...resilient in the face of hardship. You as well.
But good intentions and stubborn determination alone will not be enough to bring our mission to a successful conclusion. Be on your guard.
Jullus pyr Norbanus... It is unusual for one so young to achieve such a high rank. Very unusual.
His uniform identifies him as a member of the Ist Legion, which has a particularly fierce reputation. Whoever his superior may be, I advise you to approach them with caution.
We captured the boy as he was about to make off with our food. He must be very hungry to take such risks.
Maybe we should give him something to eat. Reward him for his boldness.
The lowly task of keeping watch over provisions would not normally befit the Sun. But these being unusual circumstances, I will let no man take that which is not by rights theirs.
Said your farewells, have you?
You will be received as invited guests, and so I urge you to observe proper social etiquette and conduct yourselves accordingly.
Your safe return takes precedence above all else. Remember this.
Thancred in particular will be worried sick if you're gone too long. May the Fury watch over and keep you.
As I said before, Thancred can be quite the worrier, but rest assured he only has your best interests at heart...
Are you and the children ready?
I will explain the route once we are outside your camp.
If anyone attempts to follow us, we will judge it an act of hostility. We will not hesitate to take appropriate measures.
I would expect nothing less. You have our full cooperation.
We will do only as instructed. After all, this is what we have been striving for ever since we arrived.
Where do you think their headquarters are? I assume there are a few others beside him and this commander he mentioned.
All right, this is far enough. Listen carefully.
We head over that hill, then follow the road until we reach Liminal Station IV.
Children in the lead. I want you where I can see you.
We do have names, you know. I'm Alisaie, and he's Alphinaud. And last but not least, there's Forename.
Forename... Where have I heard that before...?
No matter. “Alphinaud” and “Alisaie” will watch the road ahead, while we bring up the rear.
I wasn't lying about there being many dangers, so you're to run─not saunter, run─towards the station. If you even think about going for your weapon, the deal's off. Should any creatures bar the way, we go around them.
Ready to make a dash for the station?
Over that hill, then follow the road until we reach the station. So, are you ready?
If it's conversation you want, save it until we've arrived.
Having second thoughts? Hmph! Very well. Return to and regroup where we started.
Whenever you are ready, Forename. Just give the word to Jullus.
What are we waiting for? Let's get this over with.
No shuffling along at a snail's pace to give your comrades a chance to pursue us. You're to run as fast as you can─understood?
Can't any of you follow simple instructions?
I'm still unsure about leading the way, but we will do our best!
Don't fall behind!
Don't fall behind!
Over that hill, right?
This must be the road he mentioned.
If we follow this, it should lead to the station.
Not the easiest surface to run on...
We'd better not draw attention.
That's the station, I presume.
We're here...I think.
It's nothing like the ones in Thanalan...
This is it. The first stop, that is.
Good. It looks like your friends knew better than to follow us.
Are these your headquarters?
No. We're stopping here so I can check for pursuers. Since it appears you've kept to your side of the bargain, we can carry on.
I wonder what sort of conditions Jullus and his comrades are living in. If they've any sense, they'll have picked somewhere like Victors' Spoils to take shelter.
We're getting closer to the imperial palace...if one can still call it that. It truly is a terrifying sight to behold...
North of the station is Regio Domorum, one of the main residential areas. Or at least it was.
The afflicted roam the streets in packs. They'll tear us to shreds if given the chance. Keep close─no wandering off. Understood?
From here, we'll be heading northeast, keeping to the left of the railway.
While the route itself is straightforward, getting past the hordes unseen is anything but. Keep your weapons at the ready.
They would attack their own countrymen?
Aye. They spare their own but slaughter the rest without hesitation.
Though we'll try to avoid detection, the chances of sneaking by completely unnoticed are slim at best. I will lead the way, but in the event we are seen...you're to fight them off.
Those two will follow us, provided they can refrain from drawing their weapons. While I doubt they would be foolish enough to stab their guide in the back, I will not take that chance. With that said, let us proceed...
Glory...to Garlemald...
Death...to her enemies...
Godsdammit, we're perfectly capable of holding our own...
We must stay alert...
I see why your comrades chose you.
Jullus, our contingent has a cure for the afflicted, or “tempered” as we call them.
Your people would need to be taken into custody that we may administer the treatment, but they would eventually regain their sanity.
Is that so? For all I know, your “treatment” would simply force them to forsake one master for another.
As far as I and my legion are concerned, they are no longer our people. They're beyond saving.
Those who thought differently and tried to reason with them were butchered for their bleeding hearts. Come─we have to keep moving.
Long live...the Emperor...
I hate to watch you bear this burden alone...
...
Looks like we're not being followed. We will continue onward.
He truly believes there's nothing that can be done for them. No wonder he isn't afraid to get his hands dirty...
The surest way to limit casualties is to reach our destination without drawing attention to ourselves. Perhaps afterwards we can try again to convince Jullus that the tempered can be saved...
...I meant what I said─these “people” deserve only death. I stayed my hand before only out of a desire to remain undiscovered, and that is still the higher priority. We should continue to avoid any unnecessary confrontations.
Keep following the railway.
Aaahhh...
Unnnghhh...
To think they were once ordinary people...
Such a transformation is likely irreversible...
Look at what they have become. Would you still stand there and claim that they can be cured!?
Those exposed to a vast quantity of a primal's aether may suffer severe corruption...
Even with treatment, such victims are beyond salvation.
Then you admit it. Now that you have seen these monstrosities for yourself, perhaps you will think twice before speaking of a cure.
Though I wish there was another way, I thank you for keeping us from harm.
Even here in the outskirts, it's plain to see how vastly different Garlemald is compared to other cities...
Though I wish there was another way, I thank you for keeping us from harm.
We're almost there.
You have kept your side of the agreement, so I will keep mine. This way.
Seems secure enough, but hardly the most hospitable of places.
I had no idea they had such expansive structures built underground...
This is Tertium, one of Garlemald's largest stations. It now serves as our headquarters.
I've already sent the twins ahead. I will be with you soon, so wait for me at the bottom of the stairs.
Go on, down the stairs, like I told you.
Or is this your first time into an underground station? They're all over Garlemald. Even during severe blizzards, we could use them to travel from one end of the city to another. Back when they were still in operation, that is.
It's plain to see why they chose this as their base of operations.
They could have done a lot worse. Even so, I imagine it's not the easiest place to live.
Indeed...and if Jullus was willing to make the perilous journey to Camp Broken Glass in search of food, their own supplies must be all but exhausted.
They may be shielded from the wind and snow, but it's still bitterly cold. Much like Victors' Spoils, it must be a constant struggle to keep their people warm.
Lower your voices. While you may be here as my “guests,” the others will not take kindly to your presence.
My commander is in the locomotive, over there.
Now comes the true test...
He certainly looks the part...
