B-By the Manusya, a traveler! Er, I mean...greetings! Greetings and welcome!
You are wise, good sir, to come to me! My special amra lassi, made with only the finest and freshest ingredients, is famed for calming unruly bellies!
By way of a warm welcome to Thavnair, I'm pleased to offer it to you for the low, low price of nineteen thousand and eight hundred gil! For not one, not two, but three bottles! A bargain amongst bargains!
Hm...
Hm...
Hm...
Nineteen thousand and eight hundred gil... That's a reasonable deal...isn't it?
Hm? I thought you could barely stand. What do you need to tell me that's so urgent?
...Wait. I shouldn't buy the lassi. This merchant is swindling me.
Uwaaah!
S-Sincerest apologies, sir, but I appear to have my prices confused! It's actually one thousand eight hundred and ninety gil for the three bottles of lassi!
Hmph. That confusion would've been quite costly. For both of us. Very well, then─your coin.
Here, a bottle for each of you. Take them to the others and get some rest.
I'll be back after I've explored the town.
“A teensy-weensy touch,” she says... Not even my hardest night's drinking comes close...
...
Praise...be to the Twelve... My stomach doth loosen its death grip...
My heartfelt thanks to thee and Estinien─and to the fine fruits of this land.
Ne'er hath teleportation induced such terrible discomfort... 'Twas torturous in its intensity, and I would sooner swim a score malms...
You were...in time? Excellent... You've spared us Tataru's wrath...
Sweet...sweet release... If you haven't already, you should have yours too.
Right, I'm ready to get on with it. That lassi truly worked wonders.
Back on your feet, I see.
Th-Thy hair...
Aye, I've bound it. 'Tis the most I could do against this heat short of shedding my armor.
...May I ask where you got the cord for it?
A local vendor. The man said it's a Thavnairian weave─tough and not easily unraveled.
...And how much did it cost?
Ninety-four hundred gil─a steal, I was told. 'Tis nothing fancy, but I've always valued function over form.
That's...incredible. I daresay not even Alphinaud could hold a candle to you.
I am inclined to agree with thine assessment. It doth seem excessive─unusually so.
One mustn't be too quick to paint a diverse people with a single brush. If such doth prove to be commonplace, I would presume it symptomatic of societal instability.
...On that subject, I shall refrain from making comment. Yet I cannot help but observe that the merchants seem overzealous in their pursuit of profit.
Claiming Thavnair as its dominion, the nation of Radz-at-Han hath long thrived as a hub of commerce.
In the beginning, there were the Arkasodara, a Matanga tribe indigenous to this island.
Over time, they came to be joined by other races, and through their intermingling a culture rich and distinct did emerge.
From alchemy to textiles, the products of Hannish culture have come to be celebrated and coveted the world over. A development only aided by the nation's prime location as a waypoint betwixt east and west.
All of this hath combined to make a trading power of Radz-at-Han, yet such a status cannot be taken for granted. Nay, it must needs be maintained through judicious governance and stringent regulation.
Neither of which I see any evidence, given that merchants at a gateway town are free to fleece hapless travelers and tarnish the reputation of the nation at large.
Just so. That opportunistic pricing is rampant doth suggest that oversight is much weakened...or mayhap that the people have fallen upon hard times.
Whatever the truth may be, 'twould be prudent to ascertain the current state of affairs.
Prudent and practical, aye. We've naught to lose by learning more.
So, ere we seek out Krile's acquaintance, shall we see what information we can gather here in Yedlihmad?
Excellent. We didn't exactly get off to a flying start, but we'll make up for it.
Be thou assured that I am quite recovered. Lassi is truly a boon for unruly stomachs.
Is it truly so amusing to see my hair bound? 'Tis how I used to wear it. A functional fashion.
Perhaps you were confused by how you found me following Nidhogg's demise. It had fallen loose after the chirurgeons removed me from my armor and put me to bed. I simply decided to leave it that way for a time, seeing as I would not don the Azure Dragoon's helm again.
Right, let us split up and make inquiries in town. Forename, the pier is yours.
Once we have learned what we can, we regroup by the aetheryte...off-putting though the mere sight of it may be.
