I was wondering what occasion called for me to receive so many visitors...
A fine meal, new tools, and a welcome source of cool air─now I remember why I signed a potpact!
I am grateful for your kind considerations. Allow me a moment or two, and I'll reciprocate with a piece worthy of a potsworn.
An oil lamp to brighten the halls of Vollok Shoonsa. The craftsmanship satisfies Earthenshire's reputation for quality, I trust?
Pfff... Kohhh... Such luster! Such brilliance! Truly a gift fit for the Dawnservant!
I'm glad you like it. Considering the time I've wasted till now, I hope to continue crafting at this improved pace.
I have a contract to fulfill, after all!
Forgive my interruption.
Lamaty'i, I am told the elector has deemed the crisis past, and is prepared to task us with the feat.
That's great news! Thank you for letting me know!
So this is the craft of a potsworn. It is indeed a masterful piece.
Thank you for your words of praise, Second Promise. I drew inspiration from Kozama'uka's natural beauty and sought to capture it in my work.
I wondered why the Moblins did not simply build a workshop in the city, and now I have my answer...
Even Sharlayan goldsmiths could not easily replicate such exquisite artistry.
One cannot create great things if one lacks creative impetus. Tuliyollal, fortunately, does not want for inspiration. Anyone wishing to learn the basics of a craft would do well to study it there.
I was raised among Hhetsarro more traditional than most, and the shared ingenuity of Tural's various peoples was eye-opening.
You lived as a traditional Hhetsarro? I have few fond memories of nomadic life...
Would that I could forget that time...
I tried a serving of the dish we prepared for Kaahe. It was so good, I had a second helping!
Now my workspace is just the way I like it, I have inspiration oozing from every pore! Think that lantern was nice? Just wait until my next masterpiece...
Pfff... Pfffkohhh... Rakorok is very grateful to you!
I thank you for both your hard work and clever guessthink. When it comes to helphanding, knowing the potsworn really is important!
Well, that's true for pretty much everyone you meet. It's a lesson I've had drummed into me several times already on this journey.
Pfff... Pfffkohhh... Rakorok will see that potsworn Kaahe's lustrous oil lamp is delivered to the palace at once!
The elector bids the claimants assemble in the large building on the west side of the village. I will head over after finding Thancred and Urianger.
Ah, I also ran into the Leveilleur twins on the way here. I took the liberty of directing them to the venue.
We're rivals. It's not his job to make sure I know the feat is starting. But even now, he's conscientious to a fault...
Anyway, let's not keep Rediroq waiting!
Pfff... Pfffkohhh... Rakorok is thankful potsworn Kaahe did not quitleave like the others! He thinks you will have no hardtimes with the coming feat!
I thought everyone would be here by now.
Pfff... Pfffkohhh... Rediroq thanks you for assisting helphand Rakorok!
She will announce the feat once the other claimants arrive, so please be patient a little while longer.
I'm happy to report that we were able to convince one of the potsworn to stay. How did you fare?
So you managed to do the same. Splendid.
