Memory reconfiguration system Kairos activated. Awaiting instruction.
Command: universal memory alteration. Target area: Ktisis Hyperboreia.
Starting point: arrival of Emet-Selch of the Convocation at Propylaion. End point: the present.
Erase the memories of all events, and replace with a vague recollection of the following:
I was here, preparing to demonstrate the functionality of Kairos to Emet-Selch and Hythlodaeus.
Meteion's shared consciousness became unstable. She and her sisters could not sustain their existence, and all dissipated with a burst.
The resultant shockwave accidentally triggered Kairos, which erased several days of memories from all present. Execute.
Command acknowledged. Initializing... Three processes remaining to execution.
Bravo. I daresay one would be hard-pressed to make it fairer...
Everything that you told us, everything that has happened─the fact we've even met... It will all be gone.
Go, Meteion. To the edge of the universe, where none can reach you.
Hermes. Won't you come with me? If you were to shed your flesh, I should be able to carry you.
I will remain. As a man, I will oppose the oblivion you bring.
Silly fool... Had you said yes, I would've granted you the gentlest end.
This ends here!
Fly, Meteion!
That is far enough, Hermes!
Argos, to me!
First process complete. Two remaining to execution of memory reconfiguration.
As if we needed more pressure...
No matter what, you cannot forget what happened today. For it is the key to saving your future─your world.
This fight is our fight; what comes after, our problem to contend with. Not yours.
No, your own struggle awaits. And no one else can take your place.
You must flee this place with your memories intact─and I will see that you do!
Now then, where is it...?
There you are, my little confluence.
Almost...
Very well, then.
You may elude us this day, but not forever!
Meteion's gotten away...
Second process complete. One remaining to execution.
No time for brooding.
Listen well. Beyond lies a spatial confluence that connects the interior sections of this building.
I will destroy the confluence and force open a way outside. When I do, you must jump through.
I cannot tell you how sorry I am...
...But neither can I let you escape!
Too brave by half...
Exemplary work as always, Emet-Selch!
What? But how? I thought the confluence was over...
Over there? Yes, we were rather hoping you would.
It was never anywhere but where it is now.
The instant those two began making their way towards nothing, 'twas clear the plan was a diversion.
I'm quite incapable of destroying a confluence, I must confess.
A gambit brazen beyond words. Though we've grown accustomed to reckless improvision due to the antics of an incorrigible associate.
Though in the case of certain present company, “incorrigible” is an understatement.
Honestly, I'm beginning to suspect it's a requirement for every Azem.
There's no time! Quickly!
Even now, I do not believe your tale. I would not suffer us to walk such a wretched path.
Still, if it must be said...
Do not squander it. The legacy I leave you.
Final process complete. Executing universal memory alteration.
Go, Argos!
I'm fine. Just a little tired.
Can it be true?
Are we the only ones left who see beauty in the world─in life?
Are the stars above no more than husks of fallen civilizations?
And yet...
...I feel her. Though she is unimaginably distant, I feel Meteion's presence─and the place whereto we must go.
Ere she made good her escape, I placed an enchantment upon her. One which allows us to follow her trail.
She has already left the outermost bounds of Etheirys, and continues on her way. Given the vastness of the universe, it will still be no easy feat to track her down.
But thanks to Emet-Selch and Hythlodaeus, all is not lost. We remember.
So long as we remember, our fates remain ours to shape.
I'd like to know too. Let us ascertain the situation at Ktisis Hyperboreia, where they should still be.
What indeed. Let us begin by ascertaining the situation at Ktisis Hyperboreia, where the others should still be.
Given the likely state of their memories, however, 'twould be imprudent for us to approach them directly. In which case...
I am sorry, my friend. I've asked much of you this day, but may I trouble you one last time?
Argos will investigate in our stead. We will share in his consciousness, and see and hear as if we were with him.
Now, close your eyes and open your mind...
Thank goodness you are unharmed.
Unharmed? There is a gaping hole in my memories. I can scarcely remember arriving here in Elpis...
Forgive me...
I was preparing to demonstrate the functionality of Kairos to our guests.
But Meteion...her shared consciousness became unstable. And she...she...
So that's what prompted the state of alert.
And when you went to investigate, you were caught in Kairos's accidental operation.
So it would seem... It's all a blur to me.
Such an unfortunate accident... Oh, and what of Venat and your other companion? You went inside together, as I recall.
We did?
If Venat was with us, I have no recollection of it.
But that there is her familiar, is it not? The fellow seems happy enough, so I think it safe to assume his mistress is well.
I haven't the slightest notion who this other companion might be, however...
Ah, well, that individual struck me as a bit...different, for want of a better word.
Perhaps it wasn't actually a person, but some manner of creation.
Curious... I must ask Venat about it when next we meet.
Yes, yes, you do that. Now, if we may tend to Hermes? Whatever this Meteion did, it seems he bore the brunt of it.
Once you are fit to travel, you will return with us to Amaurot. We need to make certain there are no other ill effects.
Also─I am here on business of the Fourteen. We've already had the conversation, like as not, but since your toy wiped my memory, we'll have to have it again.
Yes, of course. As you see fit.
This Kairos─it manipulates memories through the emission of aetheric waves, correct?
There is a theory which holds that memories scoured by blasts of aether are restored when the soul is cleansed in the Underworld.
If true, then perhaps when our time comes to return to the star, we shall remember these few days we have lost.
I doubt aught of interest occurred. Look forward to the revelation if you like, but I should prefer to reminisce on more meaningful moments.
Let us rest. If only for a while.
After all, you and I... We still have a long, long way to go.
Are you feeling at all recovered? I understand that your exertions were more than purely physical, but resting one's body, if only for a moment, is never without merit.
As for Hermes... I think it unlikely he will create more entelechies.
He poured much of himself into Meteion, and now that she and her sisters are gone─dissipated, in his mind─the grief must be unbearable.
He will blame himself. He will believe that, had he never acknowledged his dissatisfaction with the world, then the Meteia would have never been born to suffer and die.
The offer to join the Fourteen will be a welcome distraction, and one day hence, he will face the advent of the Final Days in the role of Fandaniel...
Forename, listen to me. Our duty now is not to denounce Hermes for his misguided determination, or to convince Emet-Selch and Hythlodaeus that they have been deceived.
No, we must instead ensure that the experiences Hermes sought to expunge are preserved.
What remains in our memories alone will be our weapon against the Final Days.
You must fight this battle in your age, and I in mine...
Come, let us walk together once more. I will see you to the doors of Propylaion.
Come, let us walk together once more. I will see you to the doors of Propylaion.
So...it is within. The portal that brought you hither...and will take you home.
May you and yours emerge triumphant.
Make use of the knowledge you have gained, that your days in Elpis and our friends' sacrifice be not in vain.
I appreciate your sentiment, I truly do, but 'tis a very long game that we must now play.
And while you have maintained a stable presence here thus far, there are dangers in lingering overlong.
No, you must return to your own battlefield. Make use of the knowledge you have attained, that your days here and our friends' sacrifice be not in vain.
With Meteion free to pursue her designs, 'tis only a matter of time until the Final Days are upon us.
We must be ready. From fortifying our defenses to securing our escape, there is much to be done.
In spite of this, we cannot allow the report that set this calamity in motion to become common knowledge. Were the masses to learn the fates of the other stars, I fear the situation would spiral out of our control.
I must carefully consider who can be trusted, and bring them into the fold.
Ordinarily, I wouldn't hesitate to call upon the Fourteen. However, it was the desire for a fair determination that drove Hermes to attempt to erase our memories; were he made aware of his actions, there is no telling whether he would remain a friend or become a foe.
Alternately, we might try to alienate him from the Convocation. Yet in doing so, we would deprive ourselves of a brilliant mind who would be invaluable in the crises to come.
Quite the dilemma... Which is why I must work independently of the Convocation.
Regardless of how we proceed, if we are to permanently avert the Final Days, we must be equal to Hermes's challenge. We must prove that mankind is worthy to exist.
And this hinges, I think, on how we confront the all-consuming despair that accompanies a senseless and seemingly inevitable end.
Bewildered and divided, we would perish like the peoples of those celestial ruins.
We could not hope to survive the Final Days, much less take the battle to Meteion at her nest.
We must find a way to defeat despair. To unite and prepare as many as possible for the struggle ahead.
Heavy will weigh the burden of guiding this legion of souls...
Yet I have faith in mankind's potential. As long as he believes in himself, there is naught he cannot achieve. So I will not give up on him. On us.
You may find your world to be very different. Or perhaps the erasure of our friends' memories has sown the seeds of a conjunction between us.
We cannot know until the moment is at hand. So shall I strive to do my best, taking naught for granted as I walk my path.
And I pray you walk with me to the end.
As you move forward, so too will I. As will all resolved to fight for the morrow.
And when mankind has found the strength to stand against despair...
We shall silence the song of oblivion.
She who sings it will learn our journey is far from over. This I promise.
Fare you well, my light of the future. Till we meet again.
From this day forth, I shall strive to bring honor to the seat of Fandaniel.
Even now, I remember standing there. Locked in a moment where the sky is aflame.
Where stars fall as tears, and screams darken the seas.
Where resignation rots the trees.
Where terror twists magicks into abominations.
Such is the lament of they who have gone before.
The song of they who tried and failed to create a better world. The song of the end.
That which hides at the edge of the universe is no longer hope's creation.
It is hopelessness incarnate.
That day, mankind saw half of its number sacrificed to bring forth Zodiark.
And covering the star in a shroud of aether, we forestalled the Final Days.
Yet the cries echoed still...
We wept for innocence lost. Wailed for death inevitable.
A reality too terrible to bear...
And for too many, who sought comfort in gilded memories of joyful days and tranquil nights.
