Warning. This vault is under my protection.Failure to withdraw will invite chastisement.
Spin and fumble!Stumble and fall!
Leave now, and live.This is your final warning.
What foolishness is this...?
Those silks...Fashioned by alchemy, I suspect.
We regroup...and counterattack!
We regroup...and counterattack!
Willful trespass confirmed.You have chosen...death.
All intruders will be slain!
Why can I not jump free?Too much rich food of late...
The enchanted fabric saps our very strength.
Just let...me catch...my breath!
Hmmm, a fitting sentinel...
What is this place?
A hidden room within a hidden vault...
We've found all the treasure, then?
What have we here...?
'Tis not unlike a Hannish alchemical furnace in design...
Well, there is one way we might find out...
Stop! You mustn't touch it!
Vrtra... Ah, my apologies. Should I continue calling you “Varshahn”?
You may address me as you wish. My nature is no longer a secret.
Still, this is not the setting I imagined for our reunion. Surely you've not entered these ruins as common looters...?
Would that we could deny your accusations...but I fear you're not far from the truth.
Great Vrtra. Might we beseech thee to explain the nature of this strange contrivance?
It was crafted by our alchemists at my behest. For the purpose of...sealing something away.
You and I will speak later.
Not the time for frivolity, my friend, not the time...
This “something” of which thou speakest... Might it be some manner of threat?
This “something” of which thou speakest... Might it be some manner of threat?
Perhaps I should simply show you.
I have lifted the seal, if only for the moment. By an authority only I possess.
A planar fissure!?
No, my friend... Small though it may be, this is a functioning gate into the void!
I expect you have more questions...
I came here in search of something that might further my research. I did not anticipate a fully functioning voidgate.
Even in the learned halls of Sharlayan, 'tis forbidden to throw wide the gates to the abyss. The peril is far too great...
Can such a tiny portal truly be so dangerous?
Voidgates and fissures are much the same thing in practice, in the sense that both allow passage between the Source and the Thirteenth. The difference in terminology refers to the circumstances of their creation.
A fissure is an incidental tear in the fabric between worlds, whereas a voidgate is the product of deliberate action.
I suspect this is the latter, judging by the elaborate mechanism put in place to control it.
To think that our search for material riches would lead to this priceless discovery!
That swirling emptiness... It puts me in mind of old friends, not to mention old foes.
Perhaps I might linger a touch longer...
I must admit, I am deathly curious to know how a voidgate came to be hidden in the depths of these ruins.
To tell that tale, we must first peer far to the south, and even further into memory.
An age five millennia past, when the Allagan Empire sent an invading force to the shores of Meracydia.
The southern people rallied around the commanding figures of Bahamut and Tiamat, and fought fiercely to repel the would-be conquerors.
With Bahamut's defeat, however, the tide turned against them. Desperate to seize any advantage, the Meracydians resorted to summoning primal entities.
In response, Emperor Xande forged a covenant with the Cloud of Darkness, sovereign among the all-devouring denizens of the void.
Thus bolstered by eikons on one side and voidsent on the other, the two armies clashed in a battle of unspeakable carnage. So much death. So much loss.
I consider myself well versed in that period of history, yet you speak as one who witnessed it happen...
Indeed I did.
I heard Tiamat's roar of defiance, and sped toward that war-torn land...
...along with my sibling, Azdaja.
We dragons are not “male” or “female” as men are wont to classify, but “elder sister” is the closest a mortal tongue can come to describing what she meant to me.
I was the last of our brood to hatch, and Azdaja cared for me where my sire could not.
Thus I was with her when Tiamat roared. I was with her when she journeyed south. And I was with her when she fought against the voidsent hordes.
Yet no matter how many of their vile fiends we cast down, more rose from the abyss to take their place. Faced with an unwinnable war of attrition, Azdaja risked her all on a final gamble...
She plunged through the voidgate itself to strike at the root of their strength.
I tried to follow in her wake, determined to lend what aid I could...but even as I came upon Allag's glittering tower, I saw the rift close behind her.
And Azdaja has been lost to us ever since.
I find I must retract my earlier claim of historical knowledge─nowhere in the Crystal Tower's archives did I see mention of such noble sacrifice.
That does not surprise me. To Allagan eyes, it must have seemed as if a lone dragon, driven to madness, simply dove through the gate and did not return.
For my part, I spent long years searching for the means to reunite with Azdaja...
Until I could search no more─until Allag was dust, and the arts to open a voidgate large enough to accommodate a dragon forever lost.
Yet you have the beginnings of a gate right here, under the control of a Hannish device.
My discovery came before Radz-at-Han was founded. Though I scoured the lands for a method to cross the rift, it was beneath the sea that I chanced to find a natural planar fissure.
It was, however, far too narrow to admit a wyrm's bulk. Only after our city rose upon the rock, and I could enlist the aid of our talented alchemists, did matters take a favorable turn.
Their dedication was beyond reproach. Tirelessly they worked to expand the fissure, and after decades of toil, it finally grew to a size that a child might pass through...
Not long ago, you told us that you called out to your kin; that Azdaja's answer was silence. I suspect the conclusion to your tale is not a joyful one.
With hope in my heart, I used a simulacrum to cross the threshold...but no─I did not find her.
What I found was a host of voidsent, clamoring around the opening they had sensed.
'Twas but a moment, but enough. I had no choice but to retreat and allow the portal to contract once more.
The gate was a threat to your people. You had to decide between endangering Radz-at-Han, and abandoning your sister... And you chose the latter.
'Twas not that thy sibling scorned thy call; 'twas that she was trapped beyond a barrier through which neither roar nor dragon may pass. Even now, in the desolate world of the Thirteenth...
I can scarce imagine your pain, yet it was wise not to linger in that place. Too long a sojourn, and even a being of your power risks being warped into a creature of the void.
You've seen this phenomenon before, when we stepped into the darkness...
As did I. Were it not for Unei and Doga—or Nero, for that matter—we might never have made it home.
Do you remember what happened to Nero? How his wounds allowed the void's corruption to enter his body and twist his aether?
Turn purple? Well, yes, his wounds had allowed the void's corruption to enter his body and twist his aether.
Remember well what happened to Nero, when his wounds allowed the void's corruption to enter his body and twist his aether...
Had it been allowed to progress much longer, I presume he would've been fully transformed.
Then there is little hope for Azdaja...
Ah, no, I hadn't meant to─ I speak only of possibilities.
The scales of the first brood are extraordinarily resistant to aetherial fluctuations. They are the protective talismans' core components, after all, and even the corruption I described would struggle to overcome─
Of course. With a warding scale in one's possession, one could conceivably survive a stay in the Thirteenth without being warped by its energies...
Be that as it may, it is too late to rescue my sister. Five thousand years too late.
And now, countless others look to me for guidance and protection.
So when I sensed intruders in the ruins, I came only to ensure that the gate remain closed. That, and to secure the treasure, of course.
I wish only to forget the rest...
Millennia have passed since last I saw her. But I see Azdaja in memory still, clear and vivid...
Vrtra's grief for a lost sibling will be no mystery to Estinien. His hath been a life entwined with sorrow, even before he became host to Nidhogg's essence.
I wondered how one of the first brood could simply vanish and leave no trace of her passage. Now I have my answer.
The Thirteenth... What chaos must consume that world...
So they managed not only to expand the fissure, but also manipulate it as one might a gate...
Astonishing. Is there any chance I could learn more of how this feat was accomplished?
I will tell you what I can. First, however, I must return to the High Crucible, and arrange to replace the guardians you so handily destroyed. It will not do to leave the gate undefended.
Ah, my apologies─we were perhaps a touch zealous in our rush to uncover the vault's secrets. If the constructs can be repaired, we would be happy to offer our assistance...?
That will not be necessary. Much as I retain spare vessels for myself, we keep duplicate guardians on hand for such eventualities. In any case, we should return to Radz-at-Han.
