My, that's a rather odd request. Mayhap you misheard her instructions?
You know, you shouldn't encourage them like this. They'll start to expect it, you mark my words!
They didn't give you any trouble, did they? Good. Now go an' tell Lady Yugiri it's all in hand.
I...I dared not hope for such magnanimity, much less expect it! Mistress Momodi is generous indeed... I shall be sure to thank her most humbly.
Lady Yugiri, I briefed the Flame General on your situation. I think you will be pleased with his reply.
We have been granted an audience?
Before the sultana and the Syndicate both. We should return to the Royal Promenade at once.
You have done much for us, Master Alphinaud. I swear we shall return the favor.
Naught is owed, Lady Yugiri, for naught has been given. This small favor, you fairly won with your words. And it is with words that you must win the favor of the Syndicate.
Then I shall choose them with care.
You will be accompanying us, yes? Good. Your presence may serve to remind the Syndicate of the true meaning of philanthropy─and that nothing so unpalatable will be required of them, assuming the Domans are willing to earn their keep. Come, the Flame General awaits us on the Royal Promenade.
A pleasure, Forename. The others are already inside. Let's not keep them waiting.
I, Yugiri of Doma, am honored to meet you at last, Your Grace. To mark this auspicious occasion, I should like to present to you the finest treasures our humble nation has to offer...
Alas, the circumstances which have brought me here today have divested me of both time and dignity. I come before you as a pauper in direst need of aid─to request that you grant my people asylum.
I, Nanamo, seventeenth in the line of Ul, welcome you to our city. Be at ease, Lady Yugiri.
Although I myself have heard the tale of your misfortune, I would ask that you recount it once more for the benefit of the others here present.
As you wish, Your Grace. For many years, my nation, Doma, suffered under the yoke of imperial rule, and my people yearned to be free. Thus, when a war of succession broke out in Garlemald, we sought to take advantage of the chaos and reclaim our liberty.
Alas, our enemy proved less preoccupied than we had hoped, and our rebellion was put down in the most brutal fashion.
Those who survived─how many do they number?
More than two hundred souls huddle within the cramped confines of our own galleon's hold. Yet this figure accounts for but one of a number of ships which escaped the purge.
It is my hope that you will allow us all to dwell within your walls. Should that prove unfeasible, however, I humbly ask that you accept as many of my people as your resources allow.
Pray understand, we do not beg a boon, but propose instead an arrangement. We would serve─as soldiers or tradesmen─until our debt is repaid.
What are the Syndicate's opinions on this matter?
