According to our most recent intelligence, the cocoon of light that formed in the air above the Wall remains undimmed and unbroken.
After measuring the cocoon's aetheric concentrations, Archon Y'shtola has confirmed the presence of a primal entity...
Hmph. So we must assume that Ilberd's thrice-damned god is indeed trapped within. And what news of the imperials? They are not like to ignore such a spectacle.
Sir. A Garlean airship was observed making an approach, but the vessel was destroyed when it drew near. The Empire appears to have made no subsequent attempts to reach the object.
The soldiers who witnessed the incident spoke of a “lance of light” issuing from within the cocoon. Of an entire warship being reduced to smoking ruin in the space of a moment...
Veterans of Carteneau, meanwhile...likened the destruction to that wrought by the fiery wrath of Bahamut.
We could face another Calamity...
So the primal is awake, then? Contained, yes, but for how long? We must destroy it now, lest it break free!
Agreed. There is, however, the small matter of how to get close enough to a being that swats warships from the sky as you would a bothersome gnat...
Is this truly so complex a puzzle? Or have you no stomach for the obvious solution?
What in the hells are you doing here!?
A pleasure to see you too, Garlond. Now, if you would be so kind as to explain to these good people why you should be begging me for my assistance, that would be most appreciated.
Who is this man?
Oh, how terrifically rude of me! Nero tol Scaeva, former tribunus of the XIVth Legion of the Garlean Empire. These days, however, one might say that I am something of a free agent.
What do you want, Nero?
I was getting to that. Although you already know what I am about to propose, old friend.
As you have rather belatedly realized, within that frail binding lurks an entity alike in strength to the great Bahamut. And the only force in existence which might conceivably contend with such a foe is the very creation which captured the elder primal in the first place. I speak, of course, of Omega.
Omega!? That hulk has been gathering dust beneath the plains of Carteneau since the Allagans breathed their last! And none alive knows how to wake it.
I'm sorry─do you understand who it is with whom you have the privilege of speaking? I am Nero tol Scaeva, master engineer─the mechanical genius who restored the Ultima Weapon to full operational capacity!
And, as luck would have it, I am graciously offering you the use of my considerable expertise.
And, what, you just expect us to accept? You're a fool if you think your deeds at the Crystal Tower were enough to win my trust, Nero.
Trust? You wound me, Garlond! All those years studying side by side at the Academy, sharing both trial and triumph. We were countrymen, once, you and I.
But sentiment aside─have you a better solution? Or do you mean to send in your vaunted hero there, as you always do, and pray the world is not engulfed in flame?
Let us approach the problem in a rational manner. Does not the fact that Omega slumbers in stasis point to the existence of some overriding technology? A means of control?
I would ask a question, if I may─Nero, was it not? In the event that we succeeded in using Omega to shackle the primal in the manner you propose, what then would become of it? Do we not risk repeating the mistakes of the Allagans?
Omega is but a tool. How we choose to employ that tool is entirely up to us. Of course, if you would rather leave it buried beneath Carteneau while you continue your petty squabbles above, then I suppose that is also your choice.
Spare us, Nero! The Seedseer's concern is a valid one. He who controls Omega wields the power of the gods. The very power which led the Allagans to destroy themselves.
And does it not fall to we engineers to prevent such misuse? What was your company's proud slogan? “Freedom through Technology”?
Hah. A creed you follow, is it?
<sigh> What say you? Do we take this villain at his word?
He makes me grind my teeth is what he does, but I suppose we don't have much of a choice.
...As will I. I don't like it, but then it doesn't look like we have much choice.
Would the council be willing to entrust this matter to a pair of former imperials?
Yes. The task of restoring the Allagan relic will be yours. But the responsibility for its reawakening must remain with the council. Do we condone this course of action?
Aye. 'Twould seem we do. Let the records show that we invest this contingent with the authority to enter Carteneau and take command of Omega.
Cid, I appoint you leader of the expedition. Scions─I would ask that you assign some few of your number to escort Master Garlond and supervise the other one.
We should be happy to oblige. The politics of Carteneau being what they are, I daresay our neutrality will prove useful in avoiding any unnecessary entanglements.
If I am not mistaken, Doma occupies a similarly neutral position. Might we not persuade you to join the expedition, Lady Yugiri? If you suspected any foul play from Nero, you would be welcome to kill him.
My blade is yours.
Not a moment's hesitation, eh? You'll forgive me if I do not shake your hand.
Well, that was a rather unexpected development, and one which raises a number of questions...not least among them how Nero chanced to learn of the council meeting in the first place.
Cid and the others are assembling at the airship landing.
Alisaie is already on her way, and it would not do to lag too far behind. Let us be off.
Forename, Alphinaud! Ready to go? The others have stepped out onto the landing for a moment, lest you wonder. Nero insisted that he be allowed to inspect the Excelsior before boarding.
And you let him? Despite his very timely offer of assistance, the thought of that man poking about in the workings of the ship without proper supervision does not fill me with confidence.
Calm yourself, Alphinaud─your sister was adamant that he would never leave her sight. She and Yugiri are─ Ah, well here they are now.
Right, I think that's everyone. Shall I set course for Carteneau?
Ah, might I ask that we delay our departure slightly? I require no more than a few hours at most. Our colleagues are studying the cocoon even as we speak, and I would hear their latest observations ere we proceed.
It would seem wise to gain as clear an understanding of the situation as possible before formulating our plan.
Oh? I thought time was against us! How foolish of me.
Hold your tongue. When we want your opinion, we'll ask for it.
Forgive me, my lady! I shall keep my counsel until such time as you have finished procrastinating.
All right. While Alphinaud speaks with his colleagues, I shall fly the Excelsior over to Mor Dhona, and we can reconvene at the Rising Stones.
Mine apologies for the trouble. I shall visit Y'shtola and the others forthwith, and join you as soon as I am able.
Forename, pray accompany Alisaie back to the Rising Stones. I should feel safer knowing you are present to entertain our “guest.”
Right. Everyone heading to Mor Dhona is welcome to travel aboard the Excelsior. I'll clear things with the girl at the counter here. Let her know when you're ready to leave.
