Hancock of the East Aldenard Trading Company. You are with clients today?
Why, if it isn't Master Keiten! Pray allow me to introduce to you my esteemed guests, but recently come from distant Eorzea.
This kind and generous soul supervises all transactions here in Kogane Dori.
Your sincerity is ever appreciated. As he says, I am Keiten of the Hakuuchi clan, and it is my honor to serve as overseer of these markets.
As we receive many foreign visitors in Kugane, we accept all manner of currencies. Rest assured, your Eorzean gil are welcome here. I invite you to peruse our wares at your leisure.
Arms, armor, foodstuffs, potables─here you will find all of them and more.
If we may pause here for a moment...
This road leads to the Ijin-gai: the district in which “ijin”─or foreigners─are permitted to reside.
Would this also be where the foreign embassies are found─including that of a certain empire?
Precisely. So you see, it would not be at all unusual to cross paths with one of our Garlean cousins here. With this in mind, I would encourage you to choose your words carefully. We would not want any physical altercations, after all, such spats being strictly forbidden!
The Sekiseigumi punish breaches of the peace quite severely. I have seen foreigners permanently exiled for a single violation─though, to be fair, this is not common. More often than not, they are executed on the spot.
What, cut down then and there!? You're joking, right?
Would that I were, but alas, these samurai are a humorless lot.
Why, I recall one instance when a foreign merchant in his cups dared lay hands upon a Hingan aristocrat in front of a Sekiseigumi. The samurai cut him in half with a single stroke.
Ugh, I don't even want to think about that...
So, as you see, it would behoove you to behave. Failing that, we may be forced to “part ways” with one another─or you with yourselves, in the manner of the late Teledji Adeledji!
...Oh, how I amuse myself. But we must carry on! I have yet to show you the Garlean Consulate!
This, as you may have surmised, is the consulate of you-know-who. Mark the guards at the gate─are their uniforms not different from those you have seen in the West?
Were you to travel far and wide, you would find that many such variations exist, often inspired by local designs. All of which goes to show that even a massive empire seeking to rule all of creation is not without its artisans!
There is oh so much more I could speak of─the soothing waters of the onsen, the ephemeral delights of the pleasure district─but you are doubtless still weary from your long sea voyage.
Let us retire to the company offices.
At long last, we arrive at our destination. May I present to you our humble offices.
We have much to discuss, so I will refrain from further prattle. Come, come, right this way!
Our thaumaturges took great pains to ward these walls against all manner of surveillance. Where business dealings are concerned, we do not compromise on confidentiality.
You may avail yourselves of these offices for the duration of your visit.Come and go as you like, and know that you may speak freely here.
Your offer is most generous, but I will not enter into any agreement which would leave us beholden to you or your master.
A legitimate concern. Allow me to clarify, then: the chairman bids you consider this as an expression of his heartfelt contrition for the bloody banquet and the unpleasantness which followed.
Never having been one to put stock in words alone, the chairman deems the provision of material aid to be a more appropriate demonstration of his sincerity.
By sheer coincidence, your purpose here also happens to coincide with our own interests. That is, assuming you are come to aid the Doman Liberation Front?
How could─ ...Hm. I will not bother to offer a denial. Aye, you have the right of it. To be specific, we are come in search of our Far Eastern allies, Yugiri and Gosetsu, whom we hope to assist in their fight.
The Auri shinobi and the Roegadyn samurai? Then you will be pleased to know that they have both come to Kugane.
Are you sure?
Quite. They came here aboard a company vessel, you see. However, they encountered difficulties securing passage across the Ruby Sea.
The Ruby Sea? Sorry, I've never been any good at geography.
Forgive me. This calls for a map.
We are here, in Kugane. The sole open port of Hingashi, situated on her western coast.
Doma, meanwhile, is here, on the eastern coast of Othard, in Yanxia.
Therefore, if your friends are to reach Doma, they must first cross the Ruby Sea.
Alas, this is easier said than done as the Ruby Sea does not fall within the dominion of either Hingashi or Doma, being controlled since antiquity by a third party: namely, the Confederacy.
Said maritime collective is known for the consummate skill of its sailors...and for demanding that any vessel entering its waters pay a toll referred to as the “Ruby Tithe.” In exchange, the Confederacy's vast fleet “guarantees the safety” of those who travel within its territory.
Now, as I am sure you are aware, Garlemald conquered Doma some twenty-five years past, at which time the Empire saw no value in controlling the Ruby Sea. And thus did they turn a blind eye to the activities of the Confederacy.
The recently appointed acting imperial viceroy of Doma had other ideas, however. She has formally condemned the Confederacy and declared that any who recognize their authority shall be branded enemies of the Empire.
Bowing to this pressure, Hingashi severed ties with these toll-takers and forbade the payment of the Ruby Tithe, prompting the Confederacy to makeit known that any merchants choosing to sail the Ruby Sea would do soat their peril...
No wonder they struggled to secure passage to Doma. What captain would risk such a journey given the circumstances?
I am told your friends were not so easily deterred from their course, but I know not whether their persistence bore fruit.
I say we follow in Yugiri and Gosetsu's footsteps and attempt to secure passage to Doma for ourselves. We will need to cross the sea in any case, and we may learn something of their whereabouts in the process.
And should we find that they are still in Kugane, we can make the journey together.
In that case, I have some information which may be of use to you. No quid pro quo, I assure you─the chairman was most insistent that I aid you to the best of my ability...
Though I am reluctant to take any action whatsoever that could be construed as placing ourselves in Lord Lolorito's debt...we must avail ourselves of what means are available.
Our Ala Mhigan allies placed their faith in us, and I do not intend to disappoint them...
It would seem inefficient for us all to venture out together in search of information on Yugiri and Gosetsu's whereabouts. Agreed?
Agreed. We need to cast our net wider─split up and pursue all available avenues of inquiry. But if we're to coordinate our efforts effectively, we'll need to establish a working base of operations here.
Indeed. Tataru would seem best suited to the task of organizing our supplies and procuring new ones.
While she attends to that, we four can begin our search by questioning the individuals Hancock identified. Alisaie and I will take those in the southern districts of the city, and the two of you can take those in the north.
In, uh...anticipation of just such an eventuality, I took the liberty of preparing some few sketches of Yugiri and Gosetsu during our voyage.
Wow... Y'shtola warned me that you were a bit of an artist, but these are great! They'll definitely come in handy.
Looks like it's you and me, Forename. Let's step outside and talk about where to start!
Wow, Alphinaud's sketches are so... I don't know how to put it, but they're very...
Well, see for yourself!
It looks more like them than they do! Honestly, he could make a living doing this...
Ah, sorry, sorry! No time for distractions! Why don't we start by visiting...Karaku at the...on-something? Onsun? Onsan? Onsen! That was it!
