Hey!
What are you doing, Zekowa? You better not be stirring up trouble!
Wihuwte, you sack of rroneek shit! This ain't over, you hear me!?
You want to tell me what that was about?
Nothing that need concern you, sir. Zekowa is simply struggling to come to terms with the low character of his friends.
But for good measure, I'll have the men keep an eye on him.
Yes, you do that.
Now, if you'll excuse me, I'll go make my rounds.
I wasn't expecting to see your faces among the crowd.
Talk is rife there's a new Dawnservant. I take it you've found it, then─the golden city.
Aye, the contest is over. And as I needed to return home to Yyasulani, I offered to show our friend some of Xak Tural.
What brings you north?
Nothing in particular. Just seeing what there is to see.
Gulool Ja Ja compensated me rather generously for our duel. I'll be able to enjoy a comfortable life on the road for the foreseeable future.
But for now, I shall be moving on.
Oh, by the way─I recommend you try the sabotender. They may not look it, but they're surprisingly delicious.
But...we don't serve sabotender here.
No sooner do we set out than we run into excitement... At least no one was hurt.
This Dustwatch has their work cut out for them. For as long as I can remember, all disputes big or small were settled by dueling.
The peoples of Shaaloani rarely saw eye to eye. And for better or worse, it was the simplest way to settle differences.
Since most would sooner not risk their lives, though, it encouraged parties to pursue peaceful resolutions in a roundabout fashion.
The Dustwatch was likely established by supporters of Koana, preferring peace be enforced through the formal rule of law.
A reasonable stance, all things considered. If things ever got out of hand, the Landsguard would be forced to step in. What freedom they have now would be lost under Zoraal Ja's authority.
All of which is to say that, unless a lengthy stay in a jailhouse appeals to you, be mindful of how you handle your arms in town.
I should like to think the stableman has arrived with the rroneek by now...
I'll go on ahead to check. If you still want to have a look around, then be my guest. Come and find us when you've had your fill.
Now that I think on it, this is the first time I've traveled with only a single companion. It makes for fewer complications.
