Not a wink of sleep, great leader!
Our aim, lest you wonder, is to perform such feats of heroism as will earn us a place in the songs of every alehouse in Eorzea. We mean to write a legend which will inspire adventurers as yet unborn to follow our shining example.
Do you have such a goal? Large or small, it matters not. Only have a star to reach for and you will reach higher.
Purpose can sustain you through times of hardship. Keep your eye on the prize, and all obstacles will be overcome in time.
You would not think to stride into battle unclad, would you? Well, goals are as arms and armor for the spirit! I wish you fortune in your endeavors, miladysir!
Back then, are ye? With all yer limbs, an' a tale to tell, I'll wager.
Fishbacks? An' there I was thinkin' ye'd only 'ave to crack a pirate skull or three. Seven hells... Ye turn yer back fer five bloody minutes, an' the scaly bastards've set up shop on yer bleedin' doorstep...
Still, sounds like ye left 'em in pieces, so I don't s'pose they'll be carryin' out whatever mischief they was plannin'─unless they was plannin' on feedin' 'emselves to the fauna o' Sastasha, o' course. Anyroad, all's well that ends well!
On behalf o' Limsa, I thank ye fer sheddin' some light on this mystery. Ye've lived up to yer reputation, an' I couldn't ask fer no more'n that.
Thanks fer sheddin' some light on this mystery. I knew ye'd get the job done, lasslad─ye always do!
Now, I'll bet yer dyin' fer a rest, but just in case yer not, I was wonderin' if ye might be interested in takin' on another job? It just so 'appens that I've 'ad a request from our sister guild in Gridania, see.
Seems the forest folk're in need of a 'venturer what can get things done.
Fer them to ask fer 'elp like this, ye can bet the task won't be no skip through a sunny glade. But after the way ye dealt with our fishback infestation, I doubt it's anythin' ye can't 'andle.
Give us a shout when yer ready, an' I'll lay it out fer ye.
Ready to 'ear about that job, then? Like I said, the request comes from our sister guild in Gridania.
...An' that's all I know. But whatever it is ye get asked to do, I some'ow doubt it'd pose any trouble fer a 'venturer as survived the bedlam in Sastasha.
If ye think ye might be interested, ye'll want to 'ave words with Mother Miounne, me counterpart in Gridania. Good luck, lass!
Take a seat wherever you like, friend. Our waitress will come to take your─
Oh? Not here to dine? Dare I hope that you're the adventurer Baderon sent word about?...You are!? The Matron be praised!
Allow me to introduce myself. My name is Miounne, and the Carline Canopy is my place.
With regard to the task in question, there is a fair bit to tell. Let me know when you're ready to hear the details, and I shall brief you.
Take a seat wherever you like, friend. Our waitress will come to take your─
Oh, it's you, Forename! 'Tis so good to see you again! ...What's that? Here at Baderon's suggestion, you say?
The foul-mouthed rogue sends me word that an adventurer might be along for the job, and it turns out to be you! Well, this makes things a lot easier, doesn't it?
With regard to the task in question, there is a fair bit to tell. Let me know when you're ready to hear the details, and I shall brief you.
Ready for that briefing? Good! Now then, here's the long and short of it...
Beg pardons for interrupting, Miounne, but our need grows ever more pressing. Have none stepped forward?
And good morrow to you too, Bowlord! Your need must be pressing indeed for you to honor us with a visit. The good news is: your journey hasn't been wasted. I'm pleased to report that we have a volunteer at last, and one who comes highly recommended, at that.
My thanks for answering the call, friend. My name is Lewin, and I lead the men and women of the Gods' Quiver.
Well, if it isn't our very own woman for all seasons! You certainly have a knack for appearing when you're most needed, Forename. My thanks for answering the call.
Now, time is of the essence, so I shall proceed directly to the heart of the matter. We wish for you to nip a potential threat to Gridania in the bud.
Beneath the Central Shroud, there lies an underground burial site called the Tam-Tara Deepcroft.
The place was once a Gelmorran settlement, but we Gridanians have long interred our dead there.
Of late, however, shadowy figures have been seen skulking about the Deepcroft, and with ever-increasing regularity.
Based on the accounts of various witnesses, we suspect that these individuals belong to the Lambs of Dalamud, a doomsday cult which sprung up prior to the Calamity.
These zealots have proven themselves dangerous in the past, and we leave them to their own devices at our peril.
Ordinarily, I would have dispatched my best men to scour the Deepcroft with orders to flush the cultists out.
Alas, the Calamity decimated our ranks, and the limited forces at my disposal are constantly required to keep the Ixal at bay.
The birdmen have grown restless of late, and I fear a storm may be brewing. In anticipation of this, I have been compelled to spread our forces throughout the Twelveswood, lest we be taken unawares.
The situation so being, we must turn to others to deal with the Lambs of Dalamud. Can we rely on you to undertake this task, friend?
Since we thwarted their attack on the Guardian Tree, the birdmen have not allowed us a moment's respite. They have probed every ilm of our defenses in search of a weakness, compelling me to spread our forces far more thinly than I would like.
The situation so being, we have no choice but to entrust the task of dealing with the Lambs of Dalamud to others. Can we rely on you to handle this matter, Forename?
You have my gratitude.
Once you've seen to your preparations, pray make your way to the Deepcroft, and identify yourself to the guard posted at the entrance. He will apprise you of the latest developments. That is all.
Be careful out there, you hear? May the Crystal guide you and keep you!
So we meet again! I cannot say I'm surprised to see you here.
You took the prize back in Limsa, but this time we will give you better sport, or I am no true adventurer!
Gods, I hate mausoleums... It's not right to disturb the dead in their slumber...
Think of our goal, sister! One day, our adventures will be the stuff of song, and it will all be worth it!
<pant> <pant> ...Childish curiosity prompted me to commit the most elementary of blunders.
Were it not for the fruit that Alianne found, my adventures may well have ended in this forbidding place.
Always look before you leap... In my haste, this most fundamental rule of adventuring slipped my mind. <sigh> I do believe I shall rest here awhile.
I shudder to think what might have happened to Isildaure had I not thought to pick the fruit I stumbled across on the way here.
Sometimes he has too much vigor for his own good. Age is supposed to mellow us, but if anything it has made him more impetuous.
I understand his desire to make use of the time left to him, but one misstep, and there won't be any.
You're Forename Surname, I take it? Thanks for helping us out, friend.
No doubt the Bowlord has already informed you, but your task is to enter the Deepcroft and purge it of the Lambs of Dalamud.
In case you're unfamiliar with them, the cult emerged shortly before the Calamity put an end to the Sixth Astral Era.
The cultists took the lesser moon, Dalamud, for their god, believing that it would deliver them from the devastation.
And so they were rather disappointed when Dalamud exploded into a thousand flaming pieces before it could complete its descent.
Now, having seen their god turn to ash, one would think that the cultists might feel moved to question their faith. On the contrary, it served only to stoke the flames of their fanaticism.
The Lambs of Dalamud are convinced that “heretics”─that is to say, everyone but them─interfered with the coming of their lord and savior, and that it's now their sacred duty to avenge him.
Whatever it is they're doing in the Deepcroft, you may be sure that no good will come of it. For the sake of Gridania, and Eorzea at large, put an end to their madness.
The Lambs of Dalamud are hells-bent on avenging their imaginary god, and will stop at nothing till their dark work is done.
They must not be suffered to desecrate the Deepcroft. For the sake of the souls laid to rest here, and all of Gridania, put an end to their madness.
