A god who knows not cessation, whose being is sustained by a millennium of fervent prayer and the Eye's nigh-bottomless reservoir of aether.
What!?
Your contempt for man has proven your undoing, Ascian. For my first act as god-king, I do hereby sentence you to die.
Aaaaaargggh!
Gods feed upon aether. It matters not what form that aether takes. Ascian souls are no exception. With this power, I shall put an end to a thousand years of conflict.
Be they sown by Ascian, dragon, or primal, wheresoever the seeds of chaos threaten to quicken, I shall excise them with my divine blade and bring order to the world.
I am become that which you abhor, Warrior of Light. If you would take issue with my godhood, I shall answer you with my blade.
Brothers! The time is come to call upon the true power of the Heavens' Ward!
Fight me if you will, Warrior of Light.
I care not. All who stand against me will be destroyed─be they servants of the Darkness or the Light.
By my blessing shall all men be sanctified, and an endless era of peace begin. Vice and conflict shall cease to be.
You reject my divinity, yet what have you to offer my people in its stead? Bitter truth? Virtuous suffering?
No matter. If you believe your cause just, I call upon you to defend it with your life!
Your feeble light shall fade before my brilliance!
O Ascalon! Drink deep of the power of slumbering gods!
I shall end your vain struggle!
Y-You survived my divine reckoning!? Impossible!
This is the power of Light?
Impossible...
How...how can this be? A millennium of prayer and the Eye's power combined—and still you stand?
Who—what are you?
...It is over, then? I had hoped that mine would be the hand to end it...but knowing you, there was little chance of that.
'Twould seem the Eye has served you well.
Its twin... At long last...
All that remains is to take them beyond the reach of man and dragon both. With this task accomplished, my toils shall finally be at an end.
Thou hadst done well to resist mine influence, bathed in my power and blood as thou wert.
Alas, in thine anticipation of comfort, thou hast lowered thy guard!
The keening of my fallen kindred... Their smoldering desire for vengeance...
Mine eyes have partaken of a thousand years of pain─a pain which I shall bestow upon thee.
Drink deep of my rage, mortal...AND BECOME ME!
Grrraaarrrgh!!!
Nidhogg, my child... What hath thy fury made of thee...?
Let us away, servant of Hydaelyn.
Chief! Over there!
Oi!
Haha! Godsdammit, do you always have to cut it so bloody close!?
It would seem she has done it again.
Was there ever any doubt?
Let us return to Ishgard. Our friends will be eager to learn the battle's outcome...and welcome back their champion.
Where is Estinien?
I daresay you are the first soul in Ishgardian history to arrive in our city upon dragonback. This scene shall be remembered for a thousand years to come.
As we had feared, the archbishop summoned the soul of King Thordan unto himself and thence became a primal.
But he and his knights are no more, thanks to the Warrior of Light.
Your struggles are not yet over, mortals.
Whom do I have the pleasure...?
I am Midgardsormr. I have journeyed with Hydaelyn's champion and observed her deeds in the conflict between man and dragon.
Tell me, children of Thordan. Do you desire peace?
My people have committed unspeakable atrocities against dragonkind─even against our own. Would that we could undo these wrongs...but we cannot.
Be that as it may, the future yet presents a chance to begin anew. Our nation has broken free of the shackles of a false faith, and Nidhogg shall lead his kindred against us no more.
I doubt not that it will require much effort and perseverance, but 'tis my belief that, in time, Ishgard will again become a place where man and dragon may abide together in harmony.
I shall remember thy words.
Yet be warned: Nidhogg's soul liveth on.
His unbridled rage hath claimed for its vessel the one thou callest the Azure Dragoon.
Estinien!
Doubt not but that Nidhogg will call out to his brood ere long, nor that they shall answer him.
Steel yourselves, for the true test is yet to come.
Come what may, we will never cease to believe.
Upon the souls of they who have sacrificed themselves to pave the way for peace, we will never abandon our cause.
A thousand-year war cannot be ended in a day. It may take generations. What thou dost begin, thy children must continue.
Entrust unto them thy hopes and dreams, that peace may reign again...and forevermore.
Let all here present attest that Ser Aymeric, acting on behalf of the archbishop, has appended his signature.
I do hereby declare...
That from this day forth, the Holy See of Ishgard shall once more be counted a member of the Eorzean Alliance.
Let our nations move forward as one, and stand united against the Garlean Empire!
For the future of Eorzea!
For the future of Eorzea!
There you are.
A noble monument to a noble soul.
From here, Lord Haurchefant can watch over all of Ishgard...
It has been a long and arduous journey. And we have lost much and more along the way.
Yet come what may, we must stay true to our purpose and press on.
That's right, you two! It's high time we got back to rebuilding the Scions!
Which means we're going to need money─and lots of it!
So ends a glorious chapter in their tale.
However, tumultuous days yet lie ahead for Ishgard.
After a thousand years under the yoke of the church, the people take their first tentative steps into the unknown.
And though they spy a glimmer of peace upon the horizon, Nidhogg's vengeful shadow yet remains to darken the way.
Be that as it may...
So long as the young commander of the Temple Knights and his heroic companions are there to guide them, the people may hold fast to hope─
the hope that, one day, true peace will return to Ishgard, and that man and dragon may live in harmony once more.
Let the deeds writ herein never be forgot,
that they may inspire generations yet unborn to strive ever heavensward.
So Lahabrea and Igeyorhm have fallen.
Bested by mortals in their attempt to initiate the eighth Rejoining. That they should be so complacent...
And now it falls to me to deal with the consequences...
Without intervention, the balance between Light and Darkness will begin to shift, placing our mission in jeopardy.
Hydaelyn's champion has grown too strong. Her might encroaches upon the realm of gods.
Equilibrium must needs be restored. The time is come for you and yours to join the fray...
...Warrior of Darkness.
Remind me: why is there no rest for the righteous?
Because they care, Master Garlond.
Of all the things they could have picked to play with... That's not a toy, you bloody fools─it's a primal!
Of all the things they could have picked to play with... That's not a toy, you bloody fools─it's a primal!
Of all the things they could have picked to play with... That's not a toy, you bloody fools─it's a primal!
After long years of estrangement, Ishgard rejoins her sister nations in the Alliance. Words cannot well express my joy.
None of this would have been possible without you, my friend.
Change is coming to Eorzea. Though it will inevitably bring with it a measure of upheaval, with hard work, peace and prosperity are sure to follow.
And yet, even as we look forward to the coming of a new age, we must needs be wary of old threats.
The lords of Garlemald have not relinquished their claim upon Eorzea, and we shall be forced to contend with them again ere long. And then there is the matter of our comrade Estinien, claimed body and soul by Nidhogg... If there is a way to rescue him, we must find it.
Suffice it to say, the path ahead holds no shortage of challenges, but together, we shall overcome them.
Fortuitous timing as always, Forename. Tataru was about to brief me on the search for our missing comrades.
If you would be so kind, then?
Absolutely! You'll be pleased to hear that Riol and his men have been making excellent progress!
You remember how F'lhaminn helped me to escape the Crystal Braves in Limsa Lominsa, only to then disappear? Well, according to Riol, she crept aboard a ship bound for Radz-at-Han, where she's been hiding ever since. He assures me that it won't be long before we're reunited.
As for Yda and Papalymo, the remains of their linkpearls have been found─and in Pearl Lane of all places. Riol thinks they must have disposed of them after escaping from the Royal Promenade.
Yes, that would make sense... They could not risk being eavesdropped upon by our betrayers.
We're all but certain they fled the city shortly after...though we still don't have a clue where they went.
I see. And what of Thancred and Minfilia?
...I'm afraid I have nothing new to share about those two. But it's not all doom and gloom! The good news is, we've enlisted the services of a Sharlayan scholar─one of the Students of Baldesion─to aid in the search, who should be arriving any day now!
One of the Students, you say? I should very much like to meet this scholar─if time permits.
But first we must attend to a more pressing matter. Ser Aymeric has summoned the two of us for a private audience. The messenger did not specify what he wished to discuss─only that it was urgent.
Assuming you have no objections, Forename, I suggest we proceed to the Congregation forthwith.
And mayhap we can meet with the scholar afterwards. Agreed?
In that case, I think I'll return to the Forgotten Knight for now. Things are liable to fall apart if I'm gone too long, you know!
The lord commander is within. Pray proceed, miss.
Thank you for coming. I wished to speak with you both in a place where privacy was assured.
We quite understand. What was it that you wished to discuss?
With my father's passing, the seat of the archbishop lies vacant. And so, in accordance with canon law, I have assumed his responsibilities.
I should stress that this is a temporary measure. It was never intended that the lord commander of the Temple Knights serve in this capacity indefinitely.
Quite the opposite. The statutes specify that I should surrender my powers as soon as a conclave of the senior clergy and the High Houses have named a new archbishop.
But in light of recent events, that would not seem appropriate.
I confess, I did not expect you to divulge quite so much quite so soon. The details of the archbishop's plans, perhaps...but the true origin of the war and all it entails...?
I too had concerns. But when the Warrior of Light is witnessed returning to the capital upon the back of a dragon, one's options are rather limited.
Mayhap I could have concealed certain details...but for how long? And at what risk? Should the truth have come to light in the meantime, how would the people have viewed my silence?
After a thousand years of lies and secrecy, I could not well abuse their trust and hope to be believed. The time for deception has passed.
...I only wish the people agreed. That some would deny the truth, I had anticipated─but not this many. And among the few who acknowledge that my father had to be stopped, no small number question our methods.
If they suspect a coup, it will not be long before some turn to violence.
It has already begun─and that on both sides. Men and women of the cloth are being harassed in the streets. Some have even been assaulted in the Brume.
Hilda and her people have formed a watch to help us maintain order, but such measures will not prevent the unrest from spreading.
For all our talk of peace, the people remain frightened and confused. For their sake, we must bring the Dragonsong War to a definitive end.
And we should be glad to help you, Ser Aymeric. But what precisely would you have us do?
We wish to treat with the dragons of Anyx Trine. To that end, I would trouble you for an escort and an introduction.
Anyx Trine? ...You would speak with Vidofnir, then?
We must needs open a dialogue between our peoples. Acting as my representative, Lucia will extend an invitation to their leader, that she might visit us here in Ishgard.
Were she still with us, I would of course have beseeched Ysayle's assistance in this matter. But as she is not, I must ask that you aid us in her stead. Will you do us this favor?
Thank you, my friends.
Lucia─I leave the rest to you.
In the wake of the archbishop's fall, the nation of Ishgard trembled, the faith of her people shaken to its very core.
For a thousand years had they fought and died, certain of the justice of their cause, only to be told that their holy war was born of the sins of their forefathers.
What then, for those brave men and women, thus stripped of their righteousness, but to despair? To deny the truth and decry its speakers?
And what then for those whom they defamed but to hope on? To have faith in a brighter tomorrow?
A tomorrow in which man and dragon might live together in harmony─then as distant as the very stars in the heavens...
Yet while we dared to hope, deep within his lair, the enemy lay gathering his strength.
Nidhogg, now possessed of his two eyes and the body of the Azure dragoon─prizes to which he had laid claim at the very hour of the heroes' triumph.
As desperately as we sought the solace of peace, the great wyrm craved the misery of war. Nor was he alone in this misbegotten desire...
I know little of the lands these dragons call home─this Anyx Trine. Had you not agreed to escort me, the coming journey would seem a far more daunting prospect.
I confess, I myself once shuddered at the thought of it. Yet even the longest journey begins with the first step, does it not?Ah, but ere we set forth, Forename and I must needs inform our comrade of our plans.
Very well. I shall see to my preparations.
Then let us go and bid farewell to Tataru, Forename.
So? What was your secret meeting all about? I'm all ears!
A diplomatic mission to Anyx Trine, you say? Well, I suppose that does take precedence...
But should your meeting with Vidofnir happen to end early, you might consider rendezvousing with Y'shtola in Idyllshire. She'll be there to receive our guest.
Don't get me wrong, your meeting with the dragons is terribly important and everything, but this scholar just happens to be─
Time permitting, as I said. We shall endeavor to join Y'shtola, but if we cannot, pray pass on our regards.
Let us be off, Forename. We have kept the first commander waiting long enough.
You are ready, then? Good─so am I.
The path is long but known to us. From Falcon's Nest, we shall cross the western highlands and make for Tailfeather in the Dravanian forelands.
There we can stop to rest and replenish our supplies. Questions? If not, then the stables await.
I always imagined that the first time I set foot upon Dravanian soil would be at the head of an army. And here I am, ready to treat with the brothers and sisters of mine enemies.
Full well do I know how difficult it can be to set aside the past. Though it was I who first proposed recruiting Ysayle to our cause, I questioned the wisdom of my words almost as soon as I had uttered them...and for a long time after that.
Here was a woman with the blood of innocents on her hands. Men, women, children─all slain in the name of the implacable Lady Iceheart.
Yet she acknowledged her misdeeds and agreed to join us in common cause. At our side, she fought in service to that greater good...even unto her dying breath─and while that does not absolve her of her sins, I...I hope that one day she will be remembered not merely as a heretic, but as a misguided soul who dreamt of peace.
...You ask much, Master Alphinaud. Yet who can say what might come to pass...should our negotiations bear fruit.
Yes─yes, of course. We must press on to Anyx Trine. If you will follow me...
Thou art ever welcome here, friend of Ysayle.
But this one I do not know.
Pray forgive us this unannounced visit, Vidofnir. May I present to you Lucia, first commander of the Temple Knights of Ishgard─and our trusted friend.
It is an honor to meet you, Vidofnir. I am come as an envoy of Ser Aymeric, lord commander of the Temple Knights and acting leader of the Holy See.
Indeed. You may speak, knight.
For one thousand years, man and dragon have been locked in an endless cycle of bloodshed and sorrow.
To our shame, we long believed your kin to be the architects of this war. But now we know the truth: that King Thordan and his knights twelve did willfully betray and murder the great wyrm Ratatoskr, shattering the peace between our peoples.
For one thousand years, our leaders conspired to conceal this truth─a truth which was at last laid bare by the Warrior of Light, the Azure Dragoon...and Ysayle.
Alas, a deception so intricately wrought cannot be undone in a moment, and our people labor to accept the truth. After an eternity of war, who would dare to dream that peace could at last be within our grasp?
Yet dream we must, as Ysayle once did. And we must make that dream a reality, as she could not.
We humbly beseech you, Vidofnir: join hands with us in friendship once more, before the eyes of my people, in Ishgard.
...A most unexpected invitation.
I have heard your request, knight. However, I cannot yet give you mine answer.
May I ask why?
This matter concerneth my sire. He must needs be consulted.
Moreover, the Gnath grow bold, even as they did before, and I would not leave my people at the mercy of the swarm.
Then we will wait. After a thousand years at war, we shall not give up on peace for want of patience.
Ha! Fear not, knight: thou shalt have mine answer within thy lifetime.
So soon? My humble thanks. I shall bear your words to my lord forthwith. Until we meet again.
Given the circumstances, I would say that went rather well.
To be frank, I am surprised our proposal was not rejected outright. Whether aught will come of it remains to be seen, however...
Mayhap I should take this opportunity to speak with some of the other dragons...Ah, but you need not wait for me. The return journey holds no fears for me now.
Well, if you have no further need of our services, we shall continue on to Sharlayan. We hope to welcome a scholar who has agreed to aid us in the search for our missing comrades.
Then I pray your journey is as swift and uneventful as ours was, and thank you again for sparing the time to assist us, even when such grave matters remain unresolved.
I can think of no graver matter than a thousand-year war─one which our friends gave their lives to see ended.
Suffice it to say, I would willingly make a thousand such journeys to ensure that their sacrifice was not in vain.
Of that I have no doubt, Master Alphinaud. I only hope the fates will not hold you to your word.
So...it would seem we have time to greet this scholar after all. How delightful. I shall be interested to hear how she means to go about finding Minfilia and Thancred. I can only assume she is privy to some new investigative technique.
In any event, our first order of business is to rendezvous with Y'shtola in Idyllshire.
Ah, Forename─'tis good to see you. I confess, I had assumed your business in Anyx Trine would detain you longer. Did your meeting with Vidofnir go well?
As well as can be expected. She must discuss Ser Aymeric's proposal with Hraesvelgr, of course, but she seemed amenable to the suggestion.
What of our Sharlayan guest? Has she arrived yet?
She has, but when I explained that you would be joining us, she asked if she might use the intervening time to explore. I agreed to meet her outside on Frontbridge. We should be on our way.
