Grrraaaaaarrrghhh!
Ho there, Forename!
Very impressive, I must say! Your name shall be writ large in the volumes that are sure to be penned on this historic expedition.
The scale of this structure defies comprehension... Someone plainly thought bigger was better.
According to the findings of my Baldesion colleagues, the Crystal Tower was constructed to collect and store the endless energies of the sun. A characteristically ambitious undertaking.
Now, what of the tower's inner defenses? Judging by your haggard expression, clearing out the labyrinth was no small feat.
...A giant of a man wielding a shimmering scimitar, you say? Yes, that will have been Phlegethon. Not Acheron. Phlegethon. He was a hero of the Allagan revolution.
And you gleaned that from what exactly? His choice of weapon?
Well, I am a historian. And I have a certain, shall we say, “affinity” for the lore of the Allagan Empire.
It is, of course, all knowledge gleaned from musty scrolls and tomes. The ancient texts claim that the Crystal Tower is defended by the champions of eld, resurrected and augmented through the Allagans' extraordinary technology.
Chief, you need to see this!
Well, well, there it is...the foot of the tower. What surprises do you have in store for us, I wonder...?
I can't tell you how glad I am to have you with us on this little jaunt, old friend. Had you not beaten a path through that maze, I very much doubt we'd be standing here now...
Well! We have much to discuss and digest. Let us retire to Saint Coinach's Find for the present and there plan our next step. Lest there be any doubt, our expedition has some way to go yet!
So good of you to join us, Forename! Our meeting would be dull indeed without a full account of your experiences in the labyrinth.
Take a moment to collect yourself, and when you are ready, we shall debate how best to proceed.
The fellowship of NOAH being accounted for, it is time this assembly was called to order!
Rammbroes will be presiding over the meeting. If you would be so kind as to inform him of your readiness to proceed...
Welcome back, Forename. I have just been reading about your encounter in the Labyrinth of the Ancients. It pleases me greatly to note that you seem none the worse for the experience.
For your reference, I have added my own notes to G'raha's preliminary expedition report, and begun compiling a Crystal Tower survey log. The information contained therein will be available to you at all times. Should you have any questions, you need only ask.
Now, if there are no objections, I shall begin with a summary of the expedition's key accomplishments.
In the course of this, our first foray into the grounds of the Crystal Tower, we succeeded in neutralizing the structure's outer defenses, before proceeding to secure the maze surrounding the base of the spire.
According to Forename's account, the labyrinth's defenses were most emphatically active. Disturbingly, her report also mentions a violent encounter with a sentry heavily augmented by Allagan technology...
In short: our misgivings were well founded. The Crystal Tower was not simply thrust above ground by the chaotic shifting of earth─it has somehow been reawoken.
If, as seems increasingly likely, the tower's secrets should prove too dangerous to share with the world, we will have no choice but to contain them. Short of leveling the place, this will almost certainly involve returning its mechanisms to a state of dormancy. To do that, however, we will first need to address the question of how they work─the answer to which must surely be waiting for us inside the tower itself. In conclusion: that is where we must go.
A task rather easier said than done, if the perils of the labyrinth are any indication...
Then I move that all further exploration of the tower be delayed until such time as an exhaustive analysis of the structure's defenses has been completed. Master Garlond, may I entrust this task to you?
It would be my pleasure.
Don't forget about us!
It's like you said, Chief─we founded the Ironworks to make sure that technology was used for the right reasons, and that means making sure it's not used for the wrong ones. We wouldn't be doing our jobs if we didn't see this through to the end.
Lads... Well, I hope you're ready for some backbreaking chores!
Well, everything seems to be in hand here, so I shall take my leave of you for the present. If I am to witness this valiant tale unfold with mine own eyes, I must needs hone my martial skills ere we ascend the spire!
You'll do nothing of the sort, G'raha. Your knowledge may prove useful to Master Garlond's investigation.
As an observer, I am not, strictly speaking, subject to your authority...
Pray do not mistake my intent, Forename. I am well aware that I shall never be a match for one with your innate talents, however hard I train. Be that as it may, pray do not allow your skills to rust from disuse during the coming pause.
We will need you fighting fit if our subsequent forays are to prove as productive as this one. Mark me: we have not yet caught more than the briefest glimpse of that which time has obscured. Soon, however, we shall cast off the veil, and gaze upon the glory of the Allagan Empire!
And with that encouraging thought in mind, it is time to bring this assembly to a close. Let us all focus on the tasks at hand, that our next expedition may begin all the sooner. Meeting adjourned!
