They're saying that you and yours are visitors from beyond the barrier. That true?
So it is! Which means we're connected to the outside world again.
Not that I have a desire to leave, mind you. I'm quite content with life here in Alexandria.
But setting that aside, you're here to observe our work, right? As you can see, I'm in charge of livestock.
Here at Yyupye's Halo, we produce not only fruits and vegetables, but also meat, poultry, and eggs.
Tending the animals is an absolute joy, but I have to be careful not to grow attached. It's always a little sad when they're shipped off, but a job is a job.
Well, I need to get back to it, but it was nice talking to you. Please give my regards to the queen!
Perhaps later you could tell me more of what the world is like beyond the barrier.
I see. Don't be too hard on yourself. Anyone would have been hard-pressed to deal with such a thing.
Oh, welcome back. My apologies for failing to notice your return.
I gather you've had your fill of speaking with the farmers? Then let us return to Mahuwsa.
Well? What are your impressions of the farm?
Oh, that's comforting to hear.
Your words serve to affirm that my people do not work with undue strain.
A curious observation. Do you not love your own work?
Oh, but I jest. It's true that the people of the outskirts seem the most fulfilled. Always, they take to their duties with good cheer.
So it was the electrope that caught your eye. That's only natural, I suppose, if you come from a place without it.
Still, you only seem mildly impressed. This leads me to believe you have experience with even more marvelous technology. I'd love to hear your tales one day!
And what did you think of our little tour, Lamaty'i?
Wh-What did you call me?
Was that inappropriate? My apologies. I heard the others call you by that name, and I thought...
No. No, it's fine. As you said before, we've no need for titles and formalities.
As for my thoughts, I was very impressed. That machines could be used to overcome so harsh an environment is amazing. I've never seen anything like it.
The feeling is understandable. Indeed, many still find the machinery behind me baffling.
It's a system that controls the distribution of water for the fields and livestock. It's been acting up lately, though...
Acting up, you say?
You needn't worry, my queen. It happens fairly often. Put simply, it's taken in water that had a strong lightning charge.
We think some creatures have become charged up with the energy, and they're releasing it into the river we use as a source.
The system would return to normal if the creatures were dealt with. But I'm reluctant to beg it of the army...
We could take care of it if you'd like.
That is most gracious of you to offer, but it is much too dangerous.
Oh, it's no trouble for the Vow of Resolve of Tuliyollal!
Regardless of how the relationship between our nations may develop, if there are people in need, I want to help. Simple as that.
And Forename is even stronger than I am. It shouldn't take us long at all.
Then very well, I gratefully accept. But please take all care.
This ought to go even faster if you and I search for lightning-charged fiends on our own. Good hunting!
Sorry for dragging you into our troubles. If it seems too dangerous, don't hesitate to retreat.
I do not doubt your strength, but please be careful.
I do not doubt your strength, but please be careful.
I do not doubt your strength, but please be careful.
Wow, you really are strong!
Ah, you're both all right, thank goodness!
You really needn't have worried so much. We barely broke a sweat dealing with the fiends. They're all gone now.
Of course I was worried! You're my dear guests!
But thank you. We truly appreciate this.
Indeed! With this, we won't have to ask Zoraal Ja's machines for help.
He's been making a concerted effort to bolster his forces, sparing but a fraction for the people's protection.
He thinks nothing of our safety. Unlike Queen Sphene...
Th-That's enough, Mahuwsa. If you have grievances, I will hear them later. But to speak of the king now...
No, she's right. He's never been one to look after his people.
...Anyway, thanks for letting us tour the farm. The folk here are delightful, and it was a pleasure to meet them.
You couldn't have favored us with more uplifting words. My people are my pride and joy.
And you never fail to let us know─nor how much you care.
Of course! You're my precious family, all of you.
You seem a good sort, Sphene. That I'll admit.
But you'll forgive me if I'm not ready to lower my guard for the enemy queen just yet.
Ahahaha! For you to be called that, I dread to imagine what villainy Your Majesty has committed!
Come now, this is no laughing matter.
A ruler is responsible for the welfare of countless lives, and one wrong decision can lead to untold suffering. Failure is unconscionable...
Now, I believe we are done with the farm. Let's move on, shall we?
Zoraal Ja, you bastard...
My apologies for laughing earlier. Your friend painted an image so far removed from the Sphene we know, I couldn't help myself.
Perhaps we should head back to the outskirts? I daresay your friends will also have returned by now.
My thanks again for dealing with the fiends. Come and visit us any time.
Like everyone, I have the utmost admiration and respect for Queen Sphene. It's a little embarrassing to say such things to her in person, though...
There is so much of Alexandria I would love to show you!
...Do you hear that?
What's happening over there?
It's nearly time.
I'm glad you could make it.
