You there, you have the look of the adventuring sort. I've been looking for someone like you to help me with my new piece.
This is your golden opportunity to be immortalized within the pages of The Raven, Eorzea's preeminent tabloid. Rest assured that unlike reporters for more unsavory rags, I, Kipih Jakkya, credit all who contribute to my articles.
What do you say? I promise that at the very least, you'll leave this experience more enriched and with an appreciation for the finer aspects of journalism.
As I live and breathe─is that Forename!? What a pleasant surprise!
Yes, yes, Kipih Jakkya, at your service. Or rather, at The Raven's service, I suppose. I never had the chance to thank you properly for before─the article I wrote with your help drew eyes from across the realm and beyond to our tabloid.
It was the highlight of my already illustrious career, and I'm overjoyed to see you again. Actually, I'm in need of help to write my latest piece, and since fortune has placed you before me, I wonder if you wouldn't lend me a hand.
Don't tell me you've forgotten who I am? It's me, Kipih Jakkya, reporter─and dare I say wordsmith─for The Raven. Did you even read the article you helped me write? Too busy adventuring, I suppose.
It was the highlight of my already illustrious career, and I'm overjoyed to see you again. Actually, I'm in need of help to write my latest piece, and since fortune has placed you before me, I wonder if you wouldn't lend me a hand.
How do you know my brother? I don't recall telling you his name... Now that you mention it, he did recently send me a letter...
Ah, but this is no time to be speaking of such things. I'm in need of help to write my latest piece, and since fortune has placed you before me, I wonder if you wouldn't lend me a hand.
Your contribution shall be much appreciated, I'm sure. Now then, the matter at hand is this invitation, which was sent to The Raven offices from the Gold Saucer.
We have been asked to write a piece on the festivities currently underway at the establishment. Naturally, as The Raven's most senior reporter, I was chosen for this privileged task.
I carry the reputation of my publication on my shoulders, and there's no shame in recruiting an assistant or two with whom to share the weight. I need someone with keen skills of observation and a dazzling insight.
And judging by my previous experiences with adventurers, you should be well equipped for this task! So, how about it? Can I count on you?
Judging by our previous adventures, there is none more suited for this task than you, dear Forename! So, how about it? Can I count on you?
Very good! Well then, let's depart to the Gold Saucer at once. The invitation states that a member of the staff awaits our arrival at Entrance Square.
If you've never visited the Gold Saucer, go and speak with that young man over there. Earlier he was handing out free tickets with abandon, and you'll need one lest our journey be short-lived indeed.
