Our brother was in Xak Tural, leading the Landsguard on a campaign to eradicate a tural vidraal.
Anyone with sense would know he was too busy for games.
Now for the part you've been waiting to hear: the nature of the contest itself.
To triumph in the rite of succession and thereby claim our nation's throne, you must travel the lands of Yok Tural...
...and find the city of gold.
If I may, Father.
Speak, Koana.
The golden city is an ancient Turali legend... But after so many failed attempts to find it, the story has become more faerie tale than fact.
If you would charge us with such a quest, are we then to assume you have proof of the city's existence?
I offer as proof my unbroken word, for I have seen it with my own four eyes.
The city's real? All those years...
This was before the founding of Tuliyollal. I traveled the lands of Tural with my companions, and we ended our journey at the gates to the golden city.
I mean to have you do the same. But in order to achieve victory proper, you'll need to break the seal I put in place.
Bring them.
The Tuliyollal Saga...
You will retrace the path I walked to unite our peoples, step by step. Along the way, seven chosen electors will be waiting to measure your worth.
Earn their keystones by performing the feats they ask of you.
Once you've fitted each of the seven tablets with a keystone, you'll have the key to unlock the seal on the golden city's gates.
So the contest is in stages, none of which can be skipped by rushing to the ultimate objective.
Exactly. Exciting, isn't it?
Martial tournaments, hunting festivals, and now this... You do so love your contests, Papa.
Were I a few years younger I would've joined in myself. Given you a proper challenge!
You may think the rite is tedious, or nonsensical, or both. But I am yielding our nation's throne.
Let me have this final indulgence.
A waste of time. Just name Bakool Ja Ja successor and be done with it.
The rite of succession begins now! I'll be watching your progress with great interest...
And claimants! Remember to collect your tablets before you leave!
You are one of Lamaty'i's allies. Speak freely.
I am Krile Baldesion, representative of the Students of Baldesion. My name is perhaps familiar to you?
It would seem you sent this letter to my order some years ago. The ink has since faded and much of the writing is illegible...
Even so, we managed to determine the essence of it: a request to investigate the golden city, addressed to my grandfather Galuf.
Included with the correspondence was this earring.
A faerie tale and a piece of jewelry were enough to convince my grandfather to sail halfway across the world. So there is surely some greater mystery at work here.
On behalf of the Students, I've come to seek clarification on the matter. Have you any knowledge you might share with me?
No. Not at this time.
I have tasked the claimants with finding the golden city. To fulfill your request would afford one of them an unfair advantage in the rite of succession.
...But once the contest is decided, I plan to entrust the entire truth to my successor. If you want to hear it, then you had best help Lamaty'i win.
Very well, Dawnservant.
On my honor as a Student of Baldesion, I will find your golden city!
Thank you for hearing my petition.
How about that. She's grown into a remarkable young woman. You should be proud, Galuf...
Too late to change your mind now, I suppose, but are you sure you wish to be part of this?
Our Third Promise is not wont to take no for an answer. Though you may have agreed to help, I worry that you were swept up in her relentless enthusiasm.
Or perhaps you've been lured by the glory of the golden city... Either way, this contest for the throne will place you and yours at the heart of political turmoil.
If you are second-guessing your decision, tell me now. This may be my last chance to help you withdraw.
Life is a series of journeys, my friend, and there's no telling what awaits us on the long road.
But what's important is to be true to yourself as you walk it.
Only then can we hope to be content when we arrive at the end of one─and step forward into another.
So you are committed to your path.
Is that so...
I will speak no more of it, then.
As for my own involvement, I can no longer conduct myself as a mere guide, I think. Not after the Dawnservant's revelation...
