I could swap 'em out... No─been there, done that, damn near lost me eyebrows...
Think, Kokkol, think! We'd be well on our way to paradise, visionaries pattin' themselves on the backs for their grand accomplishments if you'd only think!
Yes... That does sound rather lovely...
Gyaaah! ...I mean, Master Fourchenault, what a pleasant surprise! We're not blastin' off already, are we!?
The schedule remains unchanged. For better or worse...
Which is why the Forum has elected to accept assistance in resolving the aetherburner conundrum.
Huh. Not seen you lot down here before.
There are Archons among their number, but engineering is not their expertise. Nevertheless, the Forum concedes the slim possibility that they may have insights to offer. If not, you are at liberty to return them to the surface...by whatever means you see fit.
I assure you that won't be necessary. Now, about your troubles with the aetherburner...?
Aye, aye, I'll walk you through it. S'pose I could do with a change of pace.
As the name ought to tell you, the aetherburner “burns” aether─ambient or otherwise─and transforms it into motive force. Think of it like a giant bomb that never stops explodin'.
Even out in that black void where the aether's right sparse, it's strong enough to move our ark. And it probably won't kill you like an actual bomb!
...But it ain't perfect.
Accordin' to my calculations, to travel to the moon and back fast enough for the Forum's likin', the conversion rate needs to be six percent more efficient.
“A measly six percent,” you say, but if I could've squeezed even another “point six” out of it, don't you think I'd've built it that way in the first place!?
Hast thou consulted with the Loporrits?
Yes. They too are conducting their own research, for lack of a ready answer.
The moon's propulsion systems are considerable, naturally, yet they are commensurately massive.
It is no easy feat to convert their technology into an efficient means of propulsion for a “teeny-tiny toy boat,” as they say─and as I most certainly do not.
Yes, exactly! Damn it all, I ask for refined adamantite and they send me uppity rabbits with inscrutable, ancient, incompatible technology... You tryin' to drive me mad?
Do you speak of Allagan-refined adamantite, perchance?
You know of it?
Only in the most general terms, I'm afraid. 'Twas an alloy of Allagan make, but the secrets of its production were closely guarded.
As I recall, the records stated it was vital to Dalamud's construction and launch.
Aye, that's the stuff! No material more conductive far as I know. Slottin' some in's like blowing up a dam and watching the river of aether come rushing through!
Ain't a living soul that knows how to make it, though.
We were fortunate enough to salvage some for the aetherburner─just a wee bit, mind─from a chunk of Dalamud that came hurtlin' into the Northern Empty during the Calamity.
With more...well, that extra six percent efficiency would be child's play. It's a cryin' shame that we've no other sources.
Surely the many shards of Dalamud scattered throughout Eorzea would suffice. Why not get the refined adamantite from them?
Oh we tried, believe you me. But only a few specialized pieces would've had any in 'em to begin with.
Drive cores from Ragnarok-class internment hulks─those are the prize bits we really need.
But accordin' to the gleaners, gettin' to 'em means delvin' deep into the shards─and the defenses are still very operational and very eager to blow 'em up.
It's rough goin' in there, even for the cream. Not sure they'd make it out alive...
That may be for the best...though you'd doubtless find the task too dull for your liking.
Oh, very funny. Hah hah.
Hmm... There are multiple internment hulks in Eorzea alone, so handling this ourselves may not be the most efficient option.
Rather, if we could salvage adamantite from the shards simultaneously...
Thancred, is the linkshell we established before you went to Garlemald still active?
Of course. The floor is yours.
What's all this?
Gathering firewood, so to speak. We alone can accomplish little, but joined by others, we may yet build a bonfire to carry us heavensward.
This is Alphinaud. The Scions have need of you.
Understood. I will contact the Lord Commander and dispatch our finest at once.
My sisters are somewhat preoccupied with the Final Days─so I will lead the Twelveswood expedition myself.
Are you aware of any other sources of refined adamantite?
Logically, such an invaluable alloy would have been utilized solely where absolutely necessary─in components intended to conduct or collect surpassing amounts of aether.
Any extant instrumentation or devices would have likely found their way into the hands of aetherologists or...enthusiasts.
Magical artifacts of Allagan design? The Eastern alliance will send word to one and all.
Are there other ways we may offer aid? No shards of the lesser moon scar our soil, but our stake in this cause is no less for it...
Is there anything in Othard that might be of use to you?
Othard, you say!? You've got friends in far places, lad!
Anyroad, if you're offerin', I wouldn't say “no” to one of those Far Eastern sacred relics.
Some of them can hold enough aether to summon a whole damn primal. Combine a source like that with the aetherburner and three...two...one...kaboom!
...I gather you heard his explosive enthusiasm. Might you secure us a suitable relic?
It shall be done! I know little of machines, but I promise we will do our utmost to gather the materials you need to finish your starship.
I am glad for the work, in truth. Better to busy oneself than wait and fret over disasters foretold.
Then why're we all still standin' about yappin'? There's plunder for the takin'─an' I'm a born plunderer!
I'll be in Ol' Sharlayan before you know it. Start mixing the grog!
I'm certain that can be arranged. Thank you all─and do be careful.
Just like that!
Aye, just like that, our refined adamantite is on its way.
Now let us consider our next steps, shall we? There's yet much to be done.
'Preciate you doin' all this, but I ain't gettin' me hopes up just yet!
There are no oaths or contracts binding the members of the Ilsabard contingent, and in many ways, it was even more loosely organized than the Crystal Braves.
Nevertheless, I knew none would refuse this call to arms. Truly, we have been blessed with trustworthy and dependable allies.
First the Telophoroi, and now the Final Days. Heh─no one can accuse the Ilsabard contingent of backing down from a challenge!
Of course, they weren't all so committed to the cause when we first set out.
But after seeing the example set by you, Alphinaud, and the others, the change was palpable. They couldn't help but believe.
I'm confident that even the deadliest of Allagan defense mechanisms are no match for our allies.
At this rate, some of them might soon have as many accomplishments to their names as a certain Warrior of Light.
Time and time again, it seems that Allagan something-or-other are either the cause of or the solution to our problems.
Hmm... To think the selfsame materials that once launched Dalamud will now be used to help ferry mankind to the moon. There's a poetry in that.
What serendipitous irony that the remnants of the Seventh Umbral Calamity would become the keys to mankind's salvation. Never more certain have I been that Master Louisoix watcheth over us from the aetherial sea...
Well, I'm all for relying on the power of friendship, but we're now left with the rare luxury of having nothing to do. There must be something that requires our attention!
...Considering how much of a fuss he made at the time, I don't see why he takes every opportunity to bring it up. It was just firewood.
It's times like these we're reminded of how famous─or infamous─Alphinaud has become. Who'd have thought he could achieve so much with a single linkpearl conversation!
As we're expecting rather a lot of visitors in the near future, I'd best return to the surface and inform the relevant parties.
I also have a contact of my own that might be worth a try...
Oh? And who might that be?
That's for me to know and you to find out!
And on that note, I leave matters here in your capable hands. Best of luck!
And on that note, I leave matters here in your capable hands. Best of luck!
...Our course of action is clear. We must harvest refined adamantite from the shards of Dalamud, and procure arcane relics of Allagan make.
Summon the best and brightest of our Immortal Flames, and form an expeditionary party at once! Call upon the Sultansworn and Brass Blades for support as you must.
Papashan, send word to the guilds. We will require the expertise of master artisans if we are to have any hope of identifying and recovering these elusive materials.
Fyrgeiss, we have need of your Stone Torches.
They are to assist the Immortal Flames in scouring the ruins, and to help secure the surrounding areas. I trust I can count on your support?
