If materia join with other fighty-tool...
Then bigeyes! Fighty-tool gains power of airyself!
Pshhh... Shkohhh... Mutamix is reckoning that uplander is friend of Minfilia.
Yesss, tongueflaps reach ears of Mutamix with fastness.
Minfilia wants uplander to see power of materia. Uplander brings fighty-tool to Mutamix, yes?
Shkohhh! Fighty-tool is unstrong as eating-tool! Make good teachy-show of power of materia!
The materia, Master.
Now eyes of uplander point at fighty-tool, yes? Pshhh... Shkohhh... Materia join with fighty-tool...
Fighty-tool gains power of materia! Fighty-tool reborn! Here, uplander take fighty-tool to Minfilia!
Materia, strictly speaking, is a kind of crystal. It is created by drawing out the aetheric constituents from a piece of equipment and then crystallizing them.
Not just any old equipment will serve, mind you. It must have sufficient spiritbond─that being a measure of how fully an item has been imbued with its owner's spirit.
When ye attach a piece o' materia to gear, ye imbue the host item with its power. That's how Master Mutamix turned that dagger o' yours from summat as would've struggled to cut steak into a weapon worth wieldin'.
Pshhh... Shkohhh... Uplander wishes to be joiner of materia?
Then uplander best fill braincase with knowings of crafty-making.
With knowings of crafty-making, uplander can become joiner of materia.
If uplander wants braincase to rattle with knowings of materia, uplander best trade tongueflaps with learny-ones of Mutamix.
Welcome back, Forename. I trust your visit to the Bonfire proved fruitful.
Ahhh...what a remarkable difference a single piece of materia can make! Granted, the skills needed to manipulate the substance are not easily acquired, but one need only look upon the results to realize such efforts are worthwhile.
As I am sure you are aware, the quality of one's equipment can be the difference between victory and defeat. Materia may well give you the edge you need, Forename, so make it your ally.
Now, it is time we discussed the matter of your next mission. Pray speak with me when you are ready to begin.
Word has arrived from Thancred concerning our ongoing investigation.
It appears he was able to extract some information from our friend Ungust, the false priest.
He revealed that he is due to meet with the Amalj'aa to discuss their dealings.
The Immortal Flames believe that the meeting will present an ideal opportunity to ambush and capture the Amalj'aa responsible for the abductions, and so they mean to have Ungust attend as planned.
As the Amalj'aa are anticipated to offer fierce resistance, the Immortal Flames have requested our support.
I would have you provide it to them, Forename. Thancred is presently attending to another matter, but will join you as soon as he is able. Until such time as he does, you will be the Scions' sole representative on the ground.
Before he left, he bade me tell you to “save some for him.” Such is his confidence in you─a confidence I share.
When you have made ready, pray take yourself to Camp Drybone and report to the flame sergeant leading the mission. May you walk in the light of the Crystal.
