Walking one is not familiar to this one. This one does not trust strange walking ones. Strange dancing ones might be a different story, but this one expects no such thing. Walking one should go home, and leave this one be.
This one would welcome walking one who moves like these ones. If walking one would talk to this one, this one will answer. This one is a busy one, so walking one should speak with quick tongue.
Walking one would bring gift to this one? Walking one is most kind.
Walking one brings milkroot! Milkroot fills this one with great joy!
This one gives thanks. Gives many, many thanks.
Walking one carries message for elder one? This one will deliver the message to elder one. Walking one should not worry.
Hello there! We're envoys from Gridania, and we're here to treat with your people!
Aye. We come to pay our respects to your elder, and to learn from him more of your Lord Ramuh.
Who are these ones? These walking ones come from Gridania?
Walking one became a dancing one and brought milkroot, but walking one tricks this one! This one does not like tricks!
This one will speak no more. Elder one is busy. Walking ones should go home.
G-Go home, you say!? But the sylphs of Little Solace have always welcomed Gridanian envoys with open wings!
The letter carried by Forename here is an oath of peace penned by the Elder Seedseer herself! Still you would refuse us?
This one's reasons are no business of walking ones. Elder one has no words for Gridania. Walking ones waste every one's time.
Well, I never! Turned away at the gates! Whatever did we do to deserve such a rude welcome? Was Forename's jig insufficiently jiggy?
I'm as baffled as you, but something tells me recent events have our erstwhile fluttery friends feeling uncommonly wary. It would seem we've no choice but to ask around and see how we might earn their trust.
Say, Forename. Are you in the mood for dancing?
That's right: dancing! You went through all that trouble to learn the sylphs' traditional greeting, but you've greeted hardly any of them.
Why, if I were a sylph, I'd be beside myself with delight to see an adventurer expressing an interest in my culture! Me? Of course I'd be happy to join─ow, ow! There go those bloody leg cramps of mine acting up again!
