Grrrrrr!
Like oil and water... This is not like to end of its own accord.
Forename, do you perchance have some dream powder left?
Then let us put it to use and be on our way. Though something tells me we've not seen the last of their bickering...
You are a kind and considerate soul, my friend, but I believe we would be forgiven for needing to hurry. Let us put an end to this and be on our way.
Worry not, my friend. Something tells me you'll have ample opportunity later to witness their bickering. For now, however, we should be on our way.
What the swivin'─!?
<snore> <snore>
Forgive me, Korutt, but we need you to be calm as well.
I-I'm sorry... It's just, when it comes to the Goggs, I can't help but see red...
You needn't apologize, my friend. You are here on our account, and we have naught but gratitude for you.
Now that we have what we came for, however, it is time to take our leave. The Talos awaits its heart!
Well, my friend, much as I have enjoyed our time together, I think it best we split up, that we might accomplish our tasks more swiftly.
I shall see the earthseed safely into the hands of Chai-Nuzz.
While I am thus employed, would you be so good as to deliver Korutt back to Tomra?
My thanks, Forename. Brief though it was, 'twas an honor to go adventuring with you. I shall see you back in Amity.
Lali-ho! Glad you're back, and in one piece! How did you fare with the earthseed, then?
I got them all they needed! The Exarch's on his way to Amity with it now!
Good to hear that young Korutt was of help. As it happens, a few others came forward while you were gone sayin' they wanted to do their bit as well.
Given that you're buildin' a Talos, we reckoned you'd be needin' some minin' tools. So we went and modified our spare pickaxes for use by bigger folk.
Here, take these with you. Should be plenty to go 'round.
From what our scouts tell me, there's a crowd gathered at Top Rung already. Go and see that everyone has a pickaxe to swing, eh?
Look, Forename! People from all over have come to help us quarry stone!
And this isn't even all of them. As we speak, the volunteers Thancred and Ryne recruited are being escorted to the work site─and by both Crystarium and Eulmoran soldiers, no less.
So as you can see, we have plenty of hands. There's just one problem─we don't have enough tools to put in them. We've been desperately trying to round up more, but we haven't had much luck so far.
Pickaxes from the dwarves!? Trust you to have exactly what we need, exactly when we need it!
Well, what are you waiting for? Go and hand them out to everyone so they can get to work!
We've come, Forename. In case you're wondering, Guthjon is here too.
Couldn't wait to start breaking rocks, though, so he's gone on ahead. Bah, he could've at least left us a spare set of tools...
Ah, wonderful! Now we can be about it too!
Quarrying isn't exactly my stock-in-trade, but this time...this time I feel as though my wife will be with me, guiding my hand...
So let's make it happen. Let's build a world where everyone can live without fear. Where everyone has a place they can go home to.
Right, then, let's be on our way....Hm? What are you still doing here, Thaffe? I thought you'd brought your own tools.
I did. And I was just about to head off, when I saw Jeryk...
Oh gods, oh gods... If this plan works and the giant Talos comes to life...
Just imagine the size of the trolley it could push! Imagine it!
<sigh> Are you still raving on about that? How many times do I have to tell you, that's not what the Talos is for! Where the hells would the tracks even go?
There's bound to be somewhere! You just need a little imagination! Seeing as the Stoneworks is involved, maybe we could have a trolley added to the design...
Enough! We're going to work! And if I hear any more about trolleys from you, I'll have you pushing one yourself!
Long time no see, traveler! Are you waiting to be issued a pickaxe too?
Oho, you clearly weren't, and now neither are we! Rest assured, we will put these to good use and work very, very hard!
Of course, one cannot work on an empty stomach─which is why I brought some tasty worms to share!
