I'll do it! I'll go with them!
You, Korutt!?
I couldn't help overhearing. I knew the eaters had flocked to Mt. Gulg, but I didn't know why. To think the last Lightwarden's hiding up there...
The fate of Kholusia─no, the world─hangs in the balance. If I can be of some help, then I want to do my part!
Your zeal is commendable, lad, but it isn't so simple...
This here's Korutt. Young as he is, he's one of the village's finest miners. The lad's got an uncanny sense of where to dig, and his aim with a pickaxe is as true as any dwarf's.
But put him in the thick of battle, and he couldn't hit the side of a mine cart if he was sitting in it.
If all he needed to do was dig, he'd be your dwarf, but he's liable to become a sin eater's breakfast before he can even manage a swing.
It's true... I'm hopeless in a fight...
But I still want to try! Please! Please let me go with you!
Oh, thank you so much! I'll try my best not to be a burden!
If you want to take Korutt, far be it from me to stop you. Keep him safe, though, will you?
We will most assuredly encounter sin eaters along the way.
Though, with you in our company, they will be more a spectacle than a concern.
The Duergar's Tewel lies in a cave to the east. I'm ready when you are!
We'll keep to the road and head east. I'm in your hands!
It seems we have a fair distance to cover. Be on your guard for sin eaters.
Speak of the devils... Forename, the one on the left is yours.
See that Korutt comes to no harm.
Amazing! You two are really strong!
Ah heh... It may interest you to know that Forename is a great hero in the land whence she hails. Some would say the greatest.
Really? Oh, you must have some stories to tell, Forename!
That she does. Tales to impress and inspire you in turn. By all means, have her regale you with a few once our work is done.
Heh heh, I can't wait!
Aaah! More of them!
Stay behind us, Korutt.
B-But they're behind us too!
Forename, focus on the enemy. I will protect our charge.
Phew... I don't know much about fighting, but you two make a great team!
Forename is a team unto herself. I merely follow her lead.
Well, it looks like you've been doing this for years to me!
...Is that so? I...I shall take that as a compliment.
Um...did I say the wrong thing?
Not at all. Your words are most heartening. Indeed, I feel like a young man again.
You talk as if you're old! How long have you two known each other, anyway?
Well...
Uwaaah! There's even more of them!
This is too close to Amity for comfort. Let's finish them quickly and move on.
Concentrate on the ones coming for Korutt! I will see to the rest!
H-Hurry, this way!
How much farther to the cave?
Not far. It's just past this rise.
Uwaaah! Again!?
It appears we are surrounded...
Fortunately, I have a little trick for such occasions.
Forename, draw them in!
'Tis done. Let us press on.
R-Right!
Uwaaah!
J-Just as we're about to get there!
One last push, then. Shall we, Forename?
I will shield Korutt! Give the eaters everything you have!
I will ward off the attack! Stand with Korutt, Forename!
Not good... Quickly, spread out!
It appears the commotion drew this one out. Forename─time to bring all to bear!
Ungh... Not now...
Your tale will not end here!
We're alive! We're aliiive!
Let's hurry inside before any more sin eaters come!
Right, follow me please! I will take you to the Duergar's Tewel, where the purest sulphur in the land may be found!
If the terrain and─<cough>─stench are any indication, we are at the tewel.
Ah! There!
The Goggs! With their ugly, unkempt beards!
If they realize we're here, they'll come after us. Best to take them down first!
Be not so hasty, Korutt. The animosity between your two clans notwithstanding, I would not resort to violence unless necessary.
I will use an enchantment to render you invisible. It will not fool sin eaters, but it will suffice to hide you from the eyes of men.
While you are thus concealed, do you think you could find us the earthseed?
Aye, I'll dig up the choicest stuff there is!
We would be much obliged. Without further ado, then...
Hah, I can see straight through me! Right, a-digging we will go!
Let us not be idle either.
Though Korutt cannot be seen, he may still be heard. I would aid him by removing some few Goggs from the field. To that end...
Dream powder. As you may recall, we used it for the rescue mission at Laxan Loft.
Truly? It seems our alchemists got a little carried away with the latest batch...
But if it has been useful in our endeavors, then I have no cause to complain.
Now then, I shall make you invisible as well, that you might steal close to the dwarves and give them a dose of dream powder.
Even should it fail to put them to sleep outright, it should render them drowsy enough to seek their beds.
Say the word, and I will cast the enchantment.
Ready to begin? Very good.
Should the enchantment fade before you finish tending to all the dwarves, return to me and I will cast it anew.
