All set, lass? I'll see you to the ship if so.
Twelve be praised! Full sure was I that I had come too late.
Urianger? Tell me you haven't come all this way just to see us off.
Nay, my lady. Ere you quit these shores for eastern climes, I wished to share some words of seeming import.
“Look ye where the sun doth rise, see crimson embers, dark'ning skies...Look ye where the sun doth fall, see azure lost amidst the squall.”
Well that sounds suitably foreboding. Another one of your prophecies, I presume?
Of Far Eastern origin, aye. It is mine earnest hope that this ancient wisdom may serve to guide you on your journey, for what dangers lie in wait for you upon those distant shores are yet beyond my knowing.
<sigh> A parting gift befitting your roundabout ways. Thank you.
I have more than words for you, my lady.
It's beautiful... Is it for me?
Though undeniably powerful, your aetherial blade taxeth you greatly in the wielding. Not so this rapier, which shall serve you just as well 'gainst all but the most formidable foe.
Impressive... It feels as though it's attuned to my aether. I shall treasure it.
Honored guests! Say your farewells, for the moment of our parting draws nigh! A fair wind blows, and I mean to follow it!
It would seem our ship is set to sail. Pray give my regards to Thancred and the others. And...take care.
A fine day, is it not? Fair winds and following seas.The Misery is enjoying herself.
Nevertheless, it would not do for you to spend the entirety of our voyage above deck. Let me show you to your quarters.
Aaah! Is it supposed to do that!?
Not under normal circumstances...
Captain! You're needed on deck. Somethin' queer's afoot. The winds died down, the waters went still, and all of a sudden we were dragged off course...
“Dragged”? By what?
Can't rightly say, sir, but some of the lads are mutterin' about seein' things in the water. Things as shouldn't be there...
Oh, for the love of─ If you will excuse me a moment.
...Actually, might I persuade you to join me? Loath though I am to admit it,I have a bad feeling about this.
Hmm... Odd. Most odd.
Well? Do you have any idea what's going on?
...No. As the man said, despite the absence of wind and current, the Misery is somehow being pulled off course.
Well, why not fire up the ceruleum engines you have hidden below?
An excellent suggestion based on knowledge you should not have. Alas, our engines appear to be malfunctioning for reasons that escape my engineers at present...
I'm telling you, Captain, it's them...things the lads saw...
“Things”? I don't suppose I could convince you to attempt something more descriptive? An adjective, for example.
Sea Wolf superstitions and faerie tales, naught more... But if you must know, the “things” which he is so reticent to name are the souls of deceased women said to lure sailors to their deaths.
P-P-Preposterous!
Yeees, indeed... If it is neither the sea nor the weather which is responsible, then it is probably a predatory entity of some sort─perhaps a siren or some such.
For all we know, it could be a fellow “spice trader” employing magicks to seize and plunder passing vessels.
Regardless, we have but one recourse: to let the current take us where it will, and deal with whatever we find there.
What a thoroughly pragmatic suggestion. Oh, I am beginning to like you, girl.
Once we arrive at our destination, my crew shall remain with the ship to defend it while we venture forth to deal with the cause of our troubles.
Then it is settled! I know not what awaits us, but it will rue the day it reeled us in!
They're on the deck! To arms, to arms!
I'll not suffer troublemakers aboard my ship.
Nothing's going to stop us from getting to the Far East!
Watch out, there's more of them!
Island, dead ahead! All hands, brace for impact!
Seems we've arrived... Go on and greet our hosts─the rest of us will patch up the ship!
Not the most welcoming place...
I shudder to imagine what awaits here...
If we can punch them, we can deal with them!
Well, well, a ghost...
Let's not waste any time!
Is it over?
All fright and no fight.
Is it over?
Far from it. Whatever brought us here wouldn't fall so easily.
A gh-ghost ship!?
Quite literally.
That's quite a spectacle!
It appears to have been adrift for a while.
Is that the crew?
Yet another ghost.
S-So long as my spells work...
Th-That doesn't scare me!
And so it shouldn't. Ghosts are but men trapped in purgatory.
We...we did it!
May the dead know peace.
A dungeon!
It appears this was a prison isle.
I-I'm not afraid! M-Merely excited!
I daresay we will soon meet our host.
I-I tremble for the anticipation!
Is that the ghost of a siren!?
And the source of the legend, 'twould seem.
So this is the source of the legend.
