I am terribly, terribly sorry to have kept you all waiting!
You need not apologize. We arrived but a moment ago ourselves.
Pray allow me to introduce Krile, who is recently come from the Sharlayan motherland. She has generously offered to assist us.
Oh please, think nothing of it! A trip to Eorzea was long overdue.
You must be the Warrior of Light. Yes...you certainly do look the part. A pleasure to meet you at last, miss.
And who is that I spy but young Alphinaud Leveilleur himself! I daresay someone's grown an ilm or two in my absence─or are those lifts in your boots?
We, uh... Ahem. Miss Krile and I met at the Studium, years ago. I shall forever be indebted to her for her sage guidance.
It was no small task keeping him out of trouble, believe you me! The youngest ever to enter the Studium─him and his sister, eleven-year-old prodigies.
Suffice it to say, social graces were not among his list of talents! Striding up to his seniors on his first day, head held high─what was it he said again...?
Thank you, Krile!
For what? I haven't finished yet. Would you care to attempt a more dextrous deflection?
Ahem... Mayhap we should save this delightful conversation for a more fitting occasion, when pressing matters do not demand our undivided attention.
A bit much, but better. I can tell you have been putting your skills to use here in Eorzea. Henceforth, I trust you will dazzle me with your eloquence at the first time of asking.
Right. On to more pressing matters─finding Minfilia and the other missing Scions!
I gather you have new information to share with us?
A new approach, actually. Tataru recounted the tale of your escape, and it gave me an idea.
Simply put, assuming Thancred left some manner of trail when you whisked him away─as is almost always the case with teleportation magicks─I am confident I can find and follow it.
Then what are you waiting for!?
The wherewithal to do it. The fact is, my abilities aren't quite up to the task. Not in themselves, anyway. If I had Master Matoya's Crystal Eye, on the other hand...
Then let us all call on her forthwith. I think it best that you explain your plan to her in person.
You did say we were headed for a cave, did you not? Because I certainly don't see a cave nearby. Is Master Matoya meeting us on the way or something?
I have heard many stories of Master Matoya─some quite flattering, others less so.
Rest assured, they all are true. This way─and have care where you tread.
<sigh> Is that trouble I smell, or did you forget to wipe your boots on the way in?
Forgive us, Master Matoya. We will be sure to wipe them on the way out. And may I say how glad I am that age has not yet deprived you of your senses.
Ever so quick-witted, aren't we─to the detriment of your manners. Well, out with it then. What do you want?
Pray allow me to introduce myself, Master Matoya. I am Krile, of the Students of Baldesion. I hope you will excuse our unannounced visit.
Baldesion, you say? Ah yes, the old coot set up shop on the Isle of Val, didn't he?
Regrettably, our order's headquarters─and the isle itself─were obliterated by a magick of immense power. I have the blessing of Light to thank for my own preservation.
Krile─you too possess the Echo!?
Well yes, of course I do.
Our order is devoted to uncovering the mysteries of Hydaelyn and interpreting Her will, particularly through the study of Her gift to us.
It was in the course of these studies that I met and subsequently befriended Minfilia. She and I have rather a lot in common.
I had no idea.
You weren't supposed to. Not that I wanted to deceive you, you understand, but precautions had to be taken.
Yes, yes─that's all well and good, but you still haven't told me why you're here.
The Students of Baldesion are gone, and there is naught I can do to change that. But the Scions of the Seventh Dawn can yet be restored and my dear friend found.
You have in your possession an ancient Crystal of Light─one you call your “Crystal Eye.” I believe I can use it to focus my abilities and locate one of the missing Scions.
And there I was thinking you might want to make use of my years of experience... <sigh> Wait here.
Long did I ponder the nature of this crystal and its familiar radiance...but never did I suspect it was a Crystal of Light.
On the cusp of an Umbral Calamity, souls blessed with the power of the Echo invariably appear.
To aid these Her chosen warriors, Hydaelyn bequeaths to each a sliver of Her strength in the form of a Crystal of Light.
But as Her strength wanes, so too does the potency of Her gifts. This crystal, born of an earlier era, is infused with a power far greater than those of this age.
You could travel the length and breadth of the land and not find a crystal even a fraction as pure. Its value is beyond measure─as are the risks inherent in its use.
No two manifestations of the Echo are alike. I, for example, can converse with beings of every shape and size─excepting beasts, contrary to what others would have you believe. Language has nothing to do with it, of course; rather, I am sensitive to the whispers of the soul. Their intent, their very essence even─the traces of which served to guide the elementals to Y'shtola.
Far-fetched though it may sound, I believe that with your Crystal Eye, I may be able to pick up where they left off and follow the remaining trail to Thancred. That is, if I have your permission...?
Well, the poor sod's not going to find himself. So, as long as you don't drop it or take it out of my sight, you may do with it what you will.
Thank you, Master Matoya!
Then let us begin.
From the Black Shroud, the trail continues to the north and west...towards a mountain...the foot of Sohm Al.
It was a near thing, but he was not deposited within the rock. I think.
The hunters of Tailfeather know those lands well. I say we begin our search there!
Were I to find myself in an unfamiliar wilderness, my first instinct would be to seek out signs of civilization.
Ordinarily, perhaps, but in his wounded state, he may not have wished to risk contact with strangers of unknown allegiance. Yet even had Thancred chosen to remain in the forest, the hunters would surely have stumbled across his trail.
Tailfeather doesn't strike me as an isolated outpost, though. Merchants and traders pass through reasonably regularly, do they not? In which case, we'll need to provide a more detailed description when we question the locals.
Fear not, Krile─I have already prepared several sketches of Thancred for that very purpose.
This...this is impressive. You drew him from memory?
A skill I acquired some years ago for reasons I no longer remember.
I propose we split into two pairs. Y'shtola and I will inquire at the outlying encampments, while Forename and Krile question the residents of Tailfeather. Afterwards, we shall regroup near Loth ast Vath and share our findings.
Assuming there are no objections, let us be about it.
My, he certainly has matured, hasn't he? Hard to imagine he was once a boy who practiced drawing for hours to impress young ladies...
Anyway, we had best get started. Find me when you've finished making your rounds.
What's that you've got there? A sketch?
Hmm... Can't say I know the face. You say he's somethin' of a warrior?
Hmm...I heard a tale the other day about a Hyuran vagabond who brought down a bandersnatch by himself─an' with style. Way they tell it, he was dancin' with the beast like it was the belle of the bleedin' ball. Sound like your man?
