I saw naught out of the ordinary. Does anyone know what caused it?
Judging from the crowd, something is afoot.
I mislike the look of this...
What have we here...?
Excuse me, has something happened inside Ktisis?
Mistress Venat! I'm so glad you're here!
No one knows what prompted it, but the alarum was sounded and Ktisis put into a state of alert.
Procedure dictated that we evacuate immediately, and we have yet to investigate further...
...This is Hermes's doing. Obviously.
And what does this “state of alert” entail exactly?
A field of dampening magick is draped over the entire facility, usually in response to escaped entities and the like.
Ktisis scholars and observers are unaffected, but everything─and everyone─else is weakened to a fraction of their usual capabilities.
Then consider us forewarned. We do, however, have urgent business with Chief Hermes, and must enter the premises regardless.
...That said, if Hermes is willing to enact such measures, I wonder what other obstacles he has seen fit to drop in our path.
With that enfeebling spell in place, we're not like to be at our fighting best.
And I was hardly an effective combatant to begin with! I've little to offer beyond my aetherial vision.
Then you will put that talent of yours to good use. You were fairly skilled at spotting weaknesses, if I recall.
“Fairly skilled”? Now you've gone and raised everyone's expectations...
You all need only make the most of your strengths, and I will fill in the gaps as required.
I was once Azem, after all. 'Twas my job to rise to the occasion─be that as defender, aggressor, or healer.
I feel better about my lack of prowess already!
And you, Emet-Selch, can impress us with your arcane majesty. You lob potent spells as easily as breathing, but can also channel that power in a protective manner if you so choose, yes?
Eh!? Well, yes, should the situation call for it...
Excellent! That should cover us on all fronts.
Your tale led us here, Forename, so 'tis only right that you lead us now. No matter what lies ahead, we will win through to Hermes and Meteion.
And then we will face the future together!
I will not seek to impede such an august company from going about its business. But please, do be aware that many of the specimens within are far from docile.
I said that Hermes was likely perched somewhere at the highest point of the facility, but reaching him will be no mean feat.
To put it simply, Ktisis Hyperboreia contains a multitude of vast spaces linked together at the seams, meaning the interior is far more massive than even this grand structure might otherwise suggest.
But even a colossal facility filled top to bottom with savage creations will not stop you─not with Venat and Emet-Selch at your side. And I will be there too, of course, cheering you on!
From the moment we met you, our visit has devolved into a never-ending series of complications and irritations. In spite of this, I have gained one useful thing:
An awareness of dynamis. To think that a power with the potential to corrupt aether had largely escaped our notice...
Whether or not I believe your tale, the facts underpinning your narrative will be the source of much debate.
So understand that I act not for the sake of you or your fantastical quest. My duty demands that I apprehend Meteion─and if that now means Hermes as well, then so be it.
Bleak as the contents of Meteion's report might be, many could hear it and remain content with their lives.
But not Hermes. For him, the veneer of perfection has long been cracked, and it was to the distant heavens he looked for the means to repair it.
I understand his anguish after a fashion─my own refusal to return is in opposition to the world's established order.
Yet for me, the imperfections only enhance the fragile beauty of our star. I will fight to see it delivered from destruction, warts and all.
Please, turn back! Else I might be forced to...
It seems he is determined to protect Meteion.
Aye. A right bother this is going to be...
