Zephyr winds at your back and sunshine to warm your brow, traveler from below. Kunu Vali, keeper of tales, hears your words, and she remembers.
In times long ago, in lands elsewhere, before even the cloud sea, the White is one among many. Newborn, He swims beside His many brothers, in seas of endless water.
But hated, the White is, for His brothers are purest black. So great is their contempt, their loathing, that they turn upon Him and rend His flesh asunder. And so He falls, only to rise again, for merciful gods raise Him to the heavens, and there He is reborn.
The White still longs for the sea to which He cannot return. But in rebirth, a splinter of the divine is shared, and so He opens His maw, from whence come the clouds, and a new sea is born, home to Him alone.
Content, He gazes below, and sees others who are as He─hated and hunted. He weeps, and in His benevolence, He raises up isles of earth and guides these people to the cloud sea. Such is the tale of His rebirth, and the salvation of the Vanu. May it never be forgot.
But this demon which menaces the cloud sea...His rage is that of the Vundu, His hunger that of a wild beast. The isles are His gift to us─yet now He must consume them? Kunu Vali knows no tales like this.
So according to the Vanu Vanu, the Sea of Clouds and the floating isles were gifts from Bismarck to his people...
Gifts which he has taken to eating, yes. Technically within his rights, I suppose, if perhaps a little ungenerous. Gods, eh!? But what of you, Alphinaud? Did you learn aught of value?
Alas, no. That is, unless you have an interest in the intricacies of Vanu skyfishing...
Skyfishing...?My gods, that's it! Alphinaud, my boy, I could kiss you!
From what we have observed, Bismarck is a creature of pure instinct, driven primarily by hunger. When wounded by the imperials, it fled─but not before devouring another island to restore its strength.
What I propose is this: we tow a suitably appetizing island through the Sea of Clouds, in essence “fishing” for our flying whale.
Once we draw Bismarck out of hiding, we shall use dragonkillers to fire grapnels into the beast's hide, and then reel it in close, enabling our resident eikon-slayer to engage it directly.
A bold plan, Master Garlond─but an exceedingly dangerous one. Should Forename fail to subdue the creature, she would almost certainly be eaten, along with the rest of your “appetizing island.”
Oh, she won't fail. And if anything does go wrong, I'll be at the helm of the Enterprise, ready to tow her out of trouble. I wouldn't entrust a task like this to anyone else.
Nor I. I trust you have no objections to my joining you as well?
Not at all, the more the merrier!
Right, then─it seems the boys and I have a lot of work to do if the Enterprise is to be ready for our fishing trip, while you two need to find me some bait! And not just any island, mind─I want a mouthful at most!
Well, you heard Cid. We need an island to bait the hook.
By way of a first step, I propose we speak with Chief Sonu. If the Zundu are as concerned by Bismarck's behavior as they have given us to believe, they may well be supportive of our efforts to slay him.
The tramontane is upon us. The White feasts, and the Vundu rejoice in His carnage...
Hear me, Chief Sonu. This creature which torments you now is not the deity who raised up the floating isles and made a gift of them to you.
He is a perversion of your beliefs given form by the Vundu─a false savior who consumes that which he should rightly safeguard.
Yet it need not be this way, Chief Sonu. We have the power to strike down this impostor...but we must beg of you an island to see it done.
Motes against the tempest. In vain do they struggle...
...Yet who is Sonu to speak of what may be? Perhaps even the tramontane can turn to the ponente. Very well, netherlings. When you are ready, tell Zundu scouts what manner of island you require and they guide you to it.
We shall not fail, Chief Sonu. On that you have my word.
Come, Forename─let us see how Cid's preparations are progressing.
Our Ishgardian friends have furnished us with dragonkillers and ammunition, and I've taken the liberty of procuring a magitek field generator as well.
Rest assured, we've chains to spare, every link forged by the manufactory's master craftsmen. If you've any lingering doubts as to their strength, know that they were originally intended to bind dragons─and were not found wanting.
It pleases me to inform you that the Vanu Vanu have agreed to furnish us with an island of our choosing.
Then all that remains is to confirm the readiness of the poor buggers who'll actually be doing the fighting. Forename, let Wedge know when your party is assembled.
I probably shouldn't be telling you this, but I don't like this plan. I don't like it one little bit! ...But I can't help being excited all the same!
So tell me, Forename: are you ready to hunt the white whale?
After you, then, Forename! All aboard!
Get ready, everyone! Here it comes!
Use the field generator!If the island goes, so do you!
What in the seven hells was that!?On your guard!
I'm detecting a huge increase in─Oh gods, brace yourselves!
Dammit! We've lost the generator!
Warrior...Light. Beloved...
...Hydaelyn. All made...
Darkness...like to none...known...
Hard...receive...blessing...more...
So falls the Lord of Mists, as did all others before him.
How many times does this make, Warrior of Light? Ahhh, how much you have grown─far beyond the limits of mere mortals.
She has what we seek?
That she does. The key to Azys Lla and the secrets of Allag.
I see you have regained the blessing of Light─albeit at a fraction of its former strength.
My thanks to you, Ascian─and to you as well, Warrior of Light, for saving us the effort of slaying Bismarck.
Now that the key is within our grasp, the path to the heavens shall at last be laid bare!
Hahaha... Ahahahahaha!
By our deeds shall the wrongs of antiquity be righted, and man reclaim the reins of history!
Forgive me, Forename. Had I known what was happening, mayhap I could have done something to stop them...
Alas, Wedge and I were still sealed within the engine room and heard naught of the struggle until it was over.
And now, for all our efforts, the archbishop holds the very thing we sought to keep from him...
But all is not lost, for we yet live, and we know their destination! Let us give chase and bring an end to their machinations!
Though we failed to secure the key, we must not forget that we succeeded in ridding the realm of another primal─and prevented the Vanu Vanu's lands from being consumed in so doing. The Zundu, at least, shall be glad of our deeds this day.
Let us go and inform Chief Sonu of our victory. Cid and the others will need a moment to tend to the Enterprise, besides.
Wait. Something is amiss...
Imperial troops─and they have already secured the area.
