You can't have it, kupo! This egg belongs to Luquelot!
Who in Halone's bloody fury are you? Ah, those sops at Bentbranch hired themselves an adventurer, did they?
Yet another complication. This farce has gone on long enough. Kill the moogle and the farmers' hireling, and bring me that damned egg!
Meddlesome wretches... Prepare to die!
You'll not have Leia's egg, kupo!
Ugh... She's tougher than she looks...
You'll feel this one, you obstinate cur!
You're winning, kupo!
Thank you, kupo.
What's that, kupo? How did I come to be out here?
Ah, well, this egg here is Leia's. Leia is a very special chocobo, in case you didn't know. Anyway, I was having a nap in the stables when that nasty fellow crept in and tried to steal it, kupo!
So I snatched it up as quickly as I could and made a run for it. I was planning to take it back to Bentbranch Meadows myself, but it might be safer if you did it. I'm sure Luquelot will be very happy to see you, kupo!
Do you have the egg!? Is it safe!?
Yes, it has the right coloring, the right weight... It is most definitely Leia's egg.
I know not how to thank you.
You had me worried for a bit there, Forename. 'Tis good to see you and the egg back safe and sound.
...So I was correct in my assumption that an Ishgardian was involved─albeit one who did not, in fact, make off with the egg. Well, I could hardly have anticipated the intervention of a moogle!
Bugger me... It couldn't be the same one...could it?
Might you have encountered our unlikely savior before, Keitha?
Could be, aye. One of 'em saved my hide back when the Calamity struck.
I was in a part of the woods what we now call the Standin' Corses that day. Seemed like the whole bleedin' forest was ablaze, and I couldn't see a yalm in front of me for all the smoke. Well-nigh given up hope, I had.
Then, all of a sudden, a moogle appears out of nowhere, tugs at me smolderin' sleeve, and leads me straight to a bit of the wood where the fire hadn't taken hold.
And now you know why the business is named “Moogle's Gift Mounts.” Seemed like the least I could do. I'd be dead if it weren't for that plucky little bugger.
Incredible. It may well be that the moogle has stood vigil over us ever since that day...
Ha! We'd better get back to work, then. Wouldn't want to go lettin' our guardian angel down, would we? Forename, you have our thanks. Oh, and I believe Luquelot wants to give you a little somethin' for your troubles.
Leia's egg is irreplaceable. I cannot well express to you the depth of my gratitude.
And yet, I find that I am still troubled... While this whole regrettable episode unfolded, I bore witness to a sight that greatly concerned me...
My thanks for your kindness earlier. I hate to impose again, but I have need of your assistance in another matter─one of grave import, I fear.
Of late, I have noticed that Ixali dirigibles have been appearing over the Twelveswood with increasing regularity. The frequency, however, does not bother me near so much as where they choose to fly─the patch of sky directly above the Guardian Tree.
The tree is a sacred site, or so I was given to believe when first I came to Gridania, and thus I naturally assumed that the elementals would not suffer the Ixal to profane it. Yet the birdmen have been coming and going as they please, with nary a sign of protest from the guardians of the Twelveswood.
And it was that which set me to thinking... Ever since the appearance of the much-talked-about “suspicious individual,” many and more strange things have been occurring in the forest. Could it be that he did something to the elementals?
In case it proved useful, I have committed the details of my sightings to parchment, and would ask that you deliver the document to Mother Miounne.
Please make all haste─I have an irrepressible feeling that something terrible is about to happen.
Hello there, Forename. Word of your tireless efforts at Bentbranch Meadows has reached my ears. The folk there have naught but the highest praise for you!
You certainly have a knack for making Mother proud.
Keep up the good work, you hear?
Hm? A letter...from Luquelot?
I haven't the slightest inkling what this could be about...
Gods be good...
I have a mission for you, Forename. Suffice it to say, it is urgent.
I fear it may also prove dangerous, however, so you must be prepared.
Make what arrangements you can, and report back to me the moment you are ready.
Time is of the essence, so I shall speak plain.
Based on Luquelot's observations, the Ixal have designs on the Guardian Tree, and they mean to act soon.
The tree is the oldest living thing in this ancient forest, and it is held sacred by every forestborn Gridanian.
Should it come to any harm, the elementals would fly into a rage beyond pacifying. I dread to think of the chaos that would ensue.
There isn't much time. We must act quickly.
Forename, please see this letter to the hands of Bowlord Lewin, at the Seat of the First Bow in Quiver's Hold. Should the need arise, pray put yourself wholly at the man's disposal. I strongly suspect he will need all the able-bodied souls he can muster.
The fate of Gridania hangs in the balance. Go swiftly, Forename.
