Well now, this is rather a lot of stern faces... Are my library books overdue again?
Not to our knowledge. We're associates of Krile of the Students of Baldesion. We seek passage to Thavnair, and understand that you can assist us.
Ah, the test subjects! Welcome, welcome!
...“Test subjects”?
Oh, you hadn't heard? Well then, allow me to explain.
So, in order to travel to an aetheryte, you ordinarily need to be attuned to it beforehand.
Otherwise you can't use it as a beacon to seek out while you're a mess of aether hurtling along the Lifestream.
An inconvenient but incontrovertible limitation of aetheryte teleportation.
But what if I were to tell you that there's a way to travel to an aetheryte without being attuned to it?
A way to teleport instantly to places you've never been!?
For long years, we've labored to make such travel possible, that people might move about more freely.
And we've finally done it! We've created a new kind of aetheryte that doesn't require attunement!
Truly!? That changes everything!
Well, my language may have been a bit misleading. The user need not attune to these aetherytes, but the aetherytes themselves must have been pre-attuned to each other, thereby facilitating travel between the two points.
But it just so happens that of our first test pair of aetherytes, one has been installed here in Sharlayan, and the other over in Yedlihmad, a port town in Thavnair!
As you may know, our nation has long maintained strong ties with Radz-at-Han. And indeed, we owe much of this breakthrough to the contributions of their alchemists.
So to sum up, we're to “test” these aetherytes. How fortuitous...for you...
I should mention that an accident has impaired my ability to channel aether. Will this be a problem?
Not at all! As a matter of fact, you might say these aetherytes were made for people like your good self. The magicks imbued within will whisk you away without any effort on your part.
A veritable dream come true. And far be it from me to worry about such things, but do we have permission to make use of your shiny new invention?
The only permission required is yours, so assuming you're willing, we're all set!
It may come as a surprise, but we actually struggle to find test subjects. Most people seem to have an unreasonable fear of their souls gradually disintegrating as they drift helplessly in the Lifestream─in the statistically unlikely event that something goes awry.
But it's plain that you aren't most people! Heh heh, Mistress Krile truly knows how to pick 'em!
If I might change the subject... Are Master Wilfsunn and Mistress Bloewyda not present today?
Oh, you didn't hear? They've recently resigned their posts. Their expertise was needed elsewhere.
A large-scale project helmed by the Forum itself, as I understand, but I'm not privy to the details.
I see...
Any other questions? No? Then let's get going before you change your minds! Please see to your preparations and head outside to the aetheryte plaza. I'll be along shortly.
In case you were wondering, the aetheryte still functions like a normal one. It's just been upgraded to allow unattuned travel. I'll see you there shortly.
Though words unsaid yet weigh heavy on my heart, I shall devote mine all to our task in Thavnair.
Given my experience with teleportation, I'd be lying if I said I didn't have reservations, but I will trust in Krile.
I shall teleport the tried and trusted way. Good luck.
Right, we're all set!
Just the four of you, was it?
Three. I am already attuned to the crystal in Thavnair.
You are? Oh. I would have preferred more test subjects...
Oh well, never mind. If our three travelers could line up here, please?
Yes, right there is fine! Take a deep breath, and I'll soon have you soaring through the aether.
Oh, and one last thing!
You might experience a teensy-weensy touch of violent aetherial sickness. Good luck!
What—
Thavnair, home to city-state Radz-at-Han.
Rising from the southeast waters of the Bounty, this isle of plenty served as the battleground for a conflict between two peoples.
Their cultures bled into one another until a unique amalgamation was distilled from the chaos, in a process not unlike their precious alchemy.
Once solidified as a single nation, an adamant stance of neutrality would hold invaders at bay. For a time.
Now across this vibrant isle creeps a fog of malice. What choice do you have...
...what chance...
...against such an insidious foe?
I've seen fairer faces after a bout of bad shellfish.
Let me bring you something to drink. That should help settle your bellies.
There was a note...with Krile's instructions...
Don't let Estinien roam the markets alone... He's alarmingly bad with coin...
Don't let Estinien roam the markets alone... He's alarmingly bad with coin...
Heh, no stopping...our champion... Now, quickly... Find Estinien...before he─ Hurrrk!
...
You there, I need three drinks. Something that helps with aether sickness.
