I trust you will find your compensation to be more than satisfactory. We wish to make clear that we are pleased with the efficiency and thoroughness of your work.
So much so that we have come bearing new tasks in need of your competent hand.
Another lengthy list.
If I may speak frankly. The gleaners have been pushed to the point of collapse by your unending demands.
We are not familiars to be exploited. We are Sharlayan scholars, and we deserve an explanation for this unseemly treatment. What warrants such urgency?
...In an age long past, Sharlayan was charged with a momentous duty.
And now that word of the Final Days hangs heavy in the air, the time has come for us to fulfill that charge.
I can say no more, but I promise you this: all will be revealed in due course. And when it has, you will understand that your toil was in service to the greatest good.
Then I will do your bidding. For now.
But unless you wish the gleaners to rise up in protest, I advise you to offer tangible improvements for our working conditions. Your promised revelation does nothing to address present circumstances.
A fair point. Your concerns will be conveyed to the Forum.
Ribbit.
I hope that was informative. You may consider my debt to you repaid in full.
While I do have my reservations about the Forum, I want to believe that they have our best interests at heart.
Which is why I'm reassured that you're busy sniffing out the truth of things. We can ill afford to place all our eggs in one basket─this master plan of theirs─without first understanding the risks involved.
Wait, how did you know it was us?
If you mean to impersonate a toad, try studying the real thing. And don't try to fool an expert.
Our toad performance needs work, apparently. I'll have to pay more attention the next time I see one...
You've come back alone? Where are your warty companions?
I suppose we should have known a gleaner who specializes in animal procurement would not be so easily deceived... Yet he seemed inclined to put his trust in us all the same.
More importantly, perhaps, we've discovered a new piece of the puzzle─this “momentous duty” the Forum agent mentioned.
Sharlayan has been called to action, and the Telophoroi's declaration was the catalyst. Whatever charge it is they hope to fulfill, they deem it of sufficient import to disrupt all of Labyrinthos, not to mention ignore Eorzea's request for aid...
If we happen to cross paths with Erenville again, I should like to thank him properly.
What duty could warrant the direct involvement of the Forum and the commitment of all its resources?
Judging by what we just heard, none of the gleaners were offered any kind of explanation. At this point, it seems abundantly clear that we'll learn nothing new by pressing them further.
We should head back to Y'shtola and Krile for the moment. See what they think of this.
It's funny how normal the forest seems now. As a toad, it was all so much more ominous and threatening...
...Where is Krile?
Welcome back. I trust you found Erenville, then?
Interesting... I had a feeling you would learn something important─even if that something was simply a confirmation that no one knows much of anything.
We should share this with Krile, then discuss how we'd like to proceed.
Assuming we find her back at the farm. She was still behaving oddly, so I bade her return and rest there...
Perhaps not the best decision, in hindsight. Would you mind checking near those flowers she was so entranced by? The rest of us can survey the more distant areas, just in case she decided to wander.
For you. The spell will keep it from wilting.
She said you would need it for the journey ahead.
Will you speak with Her now? I cannot hope to match Minfilia's clarity, of course, but...
...Thank you.
Do not worry. She has lent me her body for only a moment.
Just as I could not save the First from the Flood of Light, it has become arduous for me to interact with the physical world without assistance.
Though I might converse with you for a time, the incorporeal form I assumed on the ship would be incapable of casting even the simplest enchantment.
It is in the depths of the aetherial sea─the place to which all life returns─where my influence is greatest.
After Minfilia's sacrifice on the First, it was to the sea, here in the Source, where I ferried her soul. I wished that gentle spirit to find rest in the world she loved so well.
Her...and another who may yet have a part to play. Though that will depend on you.
Take the flower. Walk free. For you are free─to go where you wish. To believe what you will.
That bloom will be your guide. Test and proof of your conviction.
In darkness seek joy. Surrender not to sadness, and see beyond despair. Walk free, and bear the light for others to follow.
Together, raise it aloft and let it shine. Till the end, blinding and radiant.
That was...all too brief. Already She seems so far away...
My apologies if I startled you. Ever since we began our descent into Labyrinthos, I had sensed another's will, straining to reach out.
Even with my particular talents, though, I was unable to make a connection at first. So weak and tenuous it was...
Once I took hold of that wispy thread, imagine my surprise to discover it was Hydaelyn Herself! Needless to say, it seemed wise to learn what we could before letting go.
Her answers were more cryptic than I would have liked... But at least She left us with a guide of sorts─that unusual flower.
Yes, we are definitely making progress!
You can't be serious! We've done nothing wrong!
Master Fourchenault!? What business has the Forum with us?
Obstruction and suppression, apparently.
Mistress Baldesion. Our records show you facilitated the Scions' entrance into Sharlayan by claiming them as assistants for your organization.
We are aware of your “investigations.” After alerting the major institutions to the presence of potential troublemakers, we received word from an Archeion custodian.
A group operating under the auspices of the Students skulking about Labyrinthos and engaging in clandestine behavior.
“Clandestine”? We may not have entered Sharlayan as Scions, but we did naught to conceal our identities.
Our only purpose in this city is to seek the truth. I can think of no reason why our actions should warrant the Forum's intervention.
'Tis not our way to discourage the pursuit of knowledge. But the timing of such pursuits must be considered, not to mention their potential impact.
With the world in chaos, we, the true caretakers of wisdom, have committed ourselves to an undertaking that demands the utmost discretion.
And we will not risk its success by turning a blind eye to disruptive foreign elements in our midst.
What, then, is to be our fate? Will you put us on a ship back to Eorzea?
The Forum will convene to examine your case. The results of said inquiry will determine your future in this city.
As for your absent companion, he has already been detained.
G'raha!? But why? Is reading a crime now, too!?
Reading is encouraged. Celebrated, even. Not, however, of the volumes shelved in the restricted section of the library.
Refusing to comply will only make matters worse. Let us instead treat this as an opportunity to open a dialogue with the Forum.
Silence is often one's best defense. I would advise against prolonging the proceedings with frivolous discourse.
But enough─this is not the place for debate. The Rostra awaits.
Forgive me. I was careless...
We would have been detained regardless. This way, at least, we manage to stay together.
I trust your time within the forbidden archives was well spent?
