That I should live to behold Bahamut once more...
Magnificent. The eons of imprisonment have only made him hungrier.
I am aware of them. Pay them no mind. They are powerless to act.
It has begun. Soon the planet will regain its true form.
Ahahaha... Ahahahahaha!
Mornin', sunshine. All a bit much fer ye, was it?
...What 'appened? Ah, ye don't remember, then.
Ye keeled over in the middle o' the banquet, an' caused a right stir. 'Ad to carry ye back to the Wench meself. Well, I say “carry”...'twas more a matter o' draggin' an' rollin'. Too much cake, I reckon.
Anyroad, don't fret─'tis little wonder ye was exhausted after everythin' ye've been through lately.
Yer little nap seems to 'ave put some color back in yer cheeks, though, so I'll leave ye to it.
...Bugger! I almost forgot: the Admiral wants to 'ave a word with ye.
When ye feel up to it, talk to Zanthael an' 'e'll let ye in to the command room. Oh, an' stay awake, eh? I'm told ol' Merlwyb was in the middle o' tellin' ye a story when ye started snorin' last time, an' I doubt she'd look kindly on it if ye repeated the trick!
Greetings, Forename. Admiral Bloefhiswyn awaits you in the command room. Shall I announce you?
Still not recovered from your...er...sudden illness? I find a brisk walk along the waterfront always helps to blow away the cobwebs. The smell down there could wake the dead...
Ah, Forename, it is good to see you on your feet again. You are recovered?
Then let us waste no time. I have a task that needs doing─one I would entrust to no other.
The duty I have in mind for you requires some explanation. I do hope you have not made other plans. To business, then.
I have penned a letter to each of my counterparts in the Eorzean Alliance.
The Battle of Carteneau and the Calamity that followed claimed countless lives.
It has been five years since those of us who were spared dragged ourselves from the ashes to look upon an Eorzea we scarcely knew... Five years, and yet the people still suffer.
Their lives are fraught with worry and hardship, and the Warriors of Light who might once have given them hope are gone.
Yet we must press on regardless. We will never truly do so, however, till we have faced our past.
To that end, I am proposing that a memorial service be held in each of the city-states on the fifth anniversary of the Battle of Carteneau.
These letters contain the details of said proposal.
And I would have you deliver them to our allies as my personal envoy.
You have proven yourself a staunch and able ally to Limsa, but that is not my only reason for choosing you. No. I choose you because you possess a quality which puts me in mind of history's champions. A quality I feared lost. Say that you will perform this duty.
I knew you would not disappoint me.
This task shall take you far from the borders of our nation, to the city-states of Gridania and Ul'dah.
A grueling journey, to be sure...were you to travel by sea and land. But I mean to have you take to the skies.
An airship pass, to be used at your discretion.
Airships bound for the nations of our allies leave from the landing connected to the Bridge. But before you depart, I suggest you trouble Baderon for a few pearls of wisdom regarding each of your destinations. The old bastard is nothing if not well traveled.
'Tis a pity I cannot issue such passes with a freer hand, as I did in more peaceful times, when berths were not so limited. But in these times of war, every craft we commit to the clouds risks drawing the eye of the Empire, and every voyage must needs be born of necessity.
Lest you doubt, I consider your place well deserved.
Nor am I alone in that opinion. There were other parties who would see you granted the privilege of air travel.
Aye, Forename, your deeds do not go unnoticed.
Full many see great promise in you. But I have flattered you enough.
On behalf of Limsa Lominsa and her people, I bid you go forth, adventurer.
Discover the realm for which so many have fought and died.
Wonder and danger await you in equal measure, but turn not from either. Only by braving the unknown will you achieve the greatness of which you are surely capable.
The light of the Crystal guides you, and I wager that your destiny will be no small thing.
Back from yer meetin' with the Admiral, are ye?
Personal bleedin' envoy!?
So ye'll be carryin' the word o' the Admiral 'erself to the leaders o' the Alliance!?
Bugger me... I knew ye was goin' up in the world, but I didn't realize ye'd got that bloody 'igh!
I'm proud o' ye, lad! Thinkin' of 'ow far ye've come...why, 'tis enough to bring a tear to me eye! An' that ain't the ale talkin', neither─well, not just the ale, at any rate...
Bless the Navigator fer steerin' ye my way.
'Course, this is only the start! Now ye've got yer 'ands on an airship pass, the 'ole of Eorzea's laid out before ye, like a fair maid on a feather bed!
An' she's a big girl, too, with plenty of enticin' nooks an' crannies!
If ye think us Lominsans are characters, just wait till ye cross paths with the grim forest dwellers o' Gridania, or trade coins with the crafty merchants of Ul'dah.
An' then there's the wild places where the beasties rule, an' no bugger with an onze o' sense sets foot...
But yer a 'venturer, so I wouldn't let a little thing like that 'old ye back.
'Course, it ain't all explorin' an' excitement.
There's an 'eap o' troubles what plagues every nation, see─'tain't just ours. I'm talkin' intrigue an' infightin', beastmen an' their godsdamned primals─aye, there's an ugly side to life, an' sooner or later, yer bound to walk into it.
...But I'll wager there's bugger all out there as you can't 'andle. Summat tells me yer goin' to be just fine.
The realm's 'ad it rough, 'tis true, but folk're beginnin' to recover from the beatin' the Calamity dealt 'em. Call me an 'opeless optimist, but it wouldn't take much to turn things 'round.
'Tis the perfect time fer a 'venturer like yerself to get out there an' make a difference!...Well, what are ye waitin' fer!?
