Look thee on her face, sssupplicant. Thy prayer hath been anssswered.
Flesh sssundered hath been made whole. Blood ssspilt runneth through her veins. Breath ssstolen filleth her breassst.
But she hears not her mother's words, nor sssees her mother's face!She...she is sssilent...and empty...
Only the vesssel may be remade. Not so the flame which flickered within.Her soul hath been scattered to the four winds.
Now do you see her promises for what they are!?
Alisaie! Have you gone mad!?
Mayhap I have! But I refuse to stand by and watch yet another tragedy unfold!
Who intrudes upon thisss sssacred ground!? Imperials thirsssting for blood!?
No! We come not to shed blood but to save you from the false god who would lead you astray!
I understand how you feel, I do. You loved her with all your heart, but when the moment came, you still couldn't save her. The anguish, the anger...I know it only too well.
But I also know where this path leads! To embrace a primal is to condemn yourself to an endless cycle of despair. You will never know peace!
A worm-eaten heart may find peace and ssserenity in ssservice. In beauty and grace. Thisss hath ever been my promissse. Naught elssse.
You tempt them with visions of things that can never be, and leave them bereft and wanting!
No illusion, however sweet, can change the fact that your daughter is gone. Remember her as she was! Do not suffer this piteous shade to tarnish her memory!
For every prayer that primal “answers,” it'll demand payment in kind. Do you have any idea how many more Ananta will die to feed its hunger for crystals!?
They would have thee sssuffer man's ssspite and live in fear. Far better to dwell in my beauteousss dream than endure ssso ugly a reality.
She's wrong! We hate the Empire as much as you! If you'd just listen─
Poor, misssguided children. I would ssspare you the tormentsss of thisss cruel and misshapen world. Come, basssk in my radiance. Let it fill your heartsss and free you from your burdens.
Abide in misery then, fools. The Ananta are more deserving of my blesssing...
Leave these lands and my dreamers be. I will not warn you a second time.
I know, I know, it was stupid and foolish but...but I had to try, Forename. I had to.
I had to try...and I failed. So you have to fight. There is no other way.
Thank you, Forename. I know you will.
It means a lot to hear you say that. It does. But it doesn't make it any easier to have to ask you to face that...that thing.
Maybe so, but every time we must turn to you and others like you to do what we cannot. I just wish there was another way...
We can but do that which is within our power. Lyse, Alphinaud, and I will go and seize their crystal stores. This will not happen again.
And you... When it is finished...we will be waiting for you.
Decriers! Defilers!
Open your heartsss to me!
Who are you to wake them from the dream...
A sssliver of grace I bequeath to you...
Ressst your weary sssouls in my bosom.
Partake of my life and my love...
I shall free you from your hate!
There is no place for you within our dream...
Sssurrender to blisss...
My grace, my beauty, my everything...is yours...
You did it again. You saved them. I just wish I could've been more help...
So...it looks like the Ananta did have a mountain of crystals after all.Like every other tribe. Gods, we're all such slaves to our weaknesses...
You! You ssslew our Missstresss! She was our hope, our sssalvation!Is there no end to your cruelty!?
Listen to me, please! I know that you're only trying to protect yourselves because you feel frightened and alone...
But that's how we all feel, don't you see? If we could just turn to each other for help instead of the gods, I'm sure we could find a way to live in peace!
Your crystals are important to you, aren't they? Reflections of your souls, right? Well, you shouldn't have to sacrifice something so precious to a primal...
Who are you to quessstion our choice? You who fight without fear? We wish only to live in peace, and if thisss be the price we must pay, then ssso be it!
I know there's nothing I can say to convince you. But I hope that one day you look back and see we only ever wanted the same thing.
Begone, damn you! Ssspare me your hollow words and leave me to mourn.
I'll go...but it doesn't mean I'm giving up.
Gyr Abania is our home too, and one way or another, we're going to have to learn to live together.
Come on. Alphinaud and Alisaie are waiting.
Come on. Alphinaud and Alisaie are waiting.
Ah, the savage returns. And with her tail firmly between her legs.Beaten by beastmen, I hear.
'Twas a shameful display, by all accounts. She may have curried the viceroy's favor with her bold promises, but in the end, she's just another plodding bungler like the rest of her kind.
Strange, you would think him a better judge of character. Then again, I hear she's not averse to a more physical mode of persuasion.
Hah, I thought she rose through the ranks rather quickly. But no longer. If only she had been content with her lot, she might have lived to see the morrow.
Fordola rem Lupis, commander of the Crania Lupi, reporting as ordered.
...Why do you tremble so?
Could it be that the Empire's Butcher is afraid? That she who walks with death is terrified of her own?
I am terrified of dying having achieved naught. Gladly would I give my life to win a great victory on the battlefield, had I but the strength.
Alas, you do not. Indeed, you are weak. And born of this weakness is a blind fervor. A raging inferno which threatens to consume not only you, but everyone around you.
Yes, my lord.
You were defeated by the Resistance on several occasions.You misjudged the Ananta and spurred them into summoning an eikon.Have you anything to say?
I do not, my lord. My failures are my own.I am prepared to accept your judgment.
And that is very admirable. However, I've had enough of this dumb show. Give voice to that hunger I see in your eyes, or I will pluck them from your head.
I...I want...
I want to make them pay! All of them! Everyone who ever mocked or looked down on me─I want the power to make them pay!
...Hm. Very well.
Then I shall give you a chance. A chance to transcend your mortal limits. Assuming, that is, you are prepared to wager your life for such power.
Transcend, my lord...?
I came here prepared to die. Tell me what I must do.
I wish we could have left on better terms, but that was never going to happen. It could be a problem if they get their hands on any more crystals, though...
Never mind. We'll deal with that when the time comes.
You have done us a great ssservice this day. Long shall my sssisters sssing the praises of the eikon-ssslayer.
Let usss bear word to them of Sri Lakshmi's passsing. Come, friends─to Vira Nilya!
Ahh... The winds whissspered of your successs...and your eyes confirm their tessstimony. The Lady of Blisss no longer holds our Qalyana sssisters in Her thrall. For thisss we thank you.
Forename did the deed. We were but witnesses to her heroism.
However, I fear this is only the beginning, for there is no cure for that which drives the desperate to beseech the gods for salvation. Should they wish to use their crystals to summon Sri Lakshmi again, naught can be done to stop them.
We ignore our sssisters' plight at our peril. Thisss we know. We shall endeavor to show them another path ssso that the day you ssspeak of never comes.
We're all in this together─Ala Mhigans and Ananta. We understand that. Hopefully, in time, they will too.
You and yours will ever be friends of the Vira. On that you have my word.
We should be getting back to the Peering Stones. Thank you again, Sarisha. For everything.
Welcome back! Conrad and Marshal Tarupin came to render aid─but I hear that won't be necessary...
It won't. Sri Lakshmi's gone. Ah, but I should probably start at the beginning...
Incredible. I don't know what to say... If you hadn't been there to stop her, who knows where it would've ended.
You've saved a lot of lives, Forename. Take pride in that.
It must be said that this is something of an unprecedented situation. Previous summonings were, to my knowledge, planned well in advance by a tribe as a whole.
Indeed. There are several aspects of this incident which bear further investigation. In any event, the Qalyana's supply of crystals must remain limited for the foreseeable future, and ambient aether levels closely observed.
Understood. The Alliance will consult with the Resistance and the Vira on how best to enforce said restrictions.
Thank you, Vice Marshal.To other matters, then. What news of the imperials?
None─which itself is troubling. It seems as though the Skulls and the remainder of the garrison have fully withdrawn into the Peaks. We've seen neither hide nor hair of them since Velodyna.
Regardless of their reasons, our path is clear. Father has decided that it is time to advance east.
Finally!
...He was also most emphatic that you be spared further duties for the present. You are to rest. It would not do for the Warrior of Light to collapse from exhaustion during the march.
We may not be as strong or as quick as her, but we are soldiers nonetheless. We can deal with the imperials.
Aye. You've earned this respite, so enjoy it. And the same goes for you, M'naago. You've been away from your family too long─don't deny it.
...As you say, sir. Thank you. We'll make the most of our time here.
Heh heh, looks like it's up to me and mine to give you lot a proper welcome.
My mother prepared a special meal for this occasion, and I have it on good authority that hers is the finest cooking this side of the Velodyna!
