Do you require assistance, adventurer?
...So this is the one who would challenge Titan. I've been expecting you, Forename.
The ingredient you seek is the egg of a giant adamantoise.
The method of acquisition should be obvious─you steal it from the beast's nest, of course. Simple in theory, but difficult in execution. Most who try die in the attempt.
Will I help you get it? Hah, you amuse me. I will not jeopardize my position by openly assisting you. From me you will receive only information. What you do with it is your choice.
Let me be clear: this business between you, me, and the captain must remain a secret.
See, I don't regret my time spent with the Company in the slightest. Traveling the world, meeting interesting people, killing them─it was all jolly good fun.
Alas, Gridanians are, by and large, an unforgiving lot─Detoh here being a rare exception.
I've had to go to great lengths to ensure that I am seen as a model citizen, with no taste for drinking, whoring, gambling, and all those other activities I so dearly miss.
So understand that if you ruin my little charade by wagging your tongue, I'll fashion a noose with your entrails and hang you from the nearest heavenspillar.
Well, what are you waiting for? There's a perfectly good adamantoise egg in a nest to the east of here, just ripe for the taking.
Not that I expect you to live long enough to claim it!
The mother never strays far from the child, and you will surely be attacked the moment you lay hands upon the egg.
...There will be other heroes, Forename. You do not need to challenge Titan. Abandon your quest, or your corpse will rot in this swamp.
I thought you might have the good sense to leave this place. By your continued presence, I take it you intend to persevere to the bitter end?
Ahahaha! Such bravery, such recklessness! That will serve you well against Titan.
Leave the egg with me─I'll see that it gets to the captain. You should make haste to southern Thanalan.
In Forgotten Springs, you will find a man named U'odh Nunh. He will be your next guide. Safe travels, Forename.
