Mistress Surname! Welcome! I am Ser Laniaitte de Haillenarte, commander of the forces stationed here at Camp Cloudtop.
Strange though it may sound, I have long dreamed of meeting you. I am in your debt, you see, and shall ever remain so. Were it not for you, my younger brother Francel would have been executed upon the word of a false inquisitor.
Alas, a knight must go where duty demands, and thus have I been unable to seek you out. But by the grace of Halone, I have been granted an opportunity to thank my brother's savior in person, and to call upon her generous aid besides. Truly, I know not what I have done to deserve this double blessing!
Ahem! 'Tis a pleasure to see you again, my lady Laniaitte! You cut an elegant figure as always─a steel-clad rose, equally at home on a battlefield or in a ballroom.
...Lord Emmanellain, if it is not too much to ask, I should be grateful if you would allow me to finish speaking with Mistress Surname.
Camp Cloudtop was established to provide early warning of impending Dravanian incursions. The high elevation afforded by the floating isles makes it ideal for this purpose.
Naturally, it also makes us a ready target for attack. We are not defenseless, however. The Protector, our largest and most advanced airship, is capable of downing all but the mightiest dragons.
Alas, as you may have noticed, it is currently undergoing repair. What is worse, our efforts have been hampered by an indigenous beast tribe known as the Vanu Vanu, with whom we have had several skirmishes already.
No beastman is a match for a man of Ishgard! Bring me a birdman and I'll show him a thing or two!
<sigh> I fear much and more may be asked of you in the days to come, Mistress Surname...
While I understand Count Edmont's intentions, I would rather not waste valuable time ensuring that the young lord doesn't get trampled underfoot.
True, it is entirely possible that he may learn something from this experience...but if left to his own devices, I think it far more likely that he will make a mess of things.
Tell him...tell him that I would like him to keep watch for...Dravanian outflyers. Then, when you have a moment to speak with his manservant in private, make it clear that it is his responsibility to keep Emmanellain from shirking his duty.
Hm? A request from Laniaitte? Why didn't she think to ask me in person? Surely she must see me standing here but a few yalms away...
Oh, never mind. What is it?
A m-mission!? Yes...yes, of course! That is why I am here. I shall do as my lady asks!
Oh, is that all? No “leading the van against a beast tribe stronghold” or some such? Well, it is a rather droll task, but who am I to deny her? I shall begin at once!
Well, that's rather childish of you.
