Here's yours. My apologies for the wait.
Well, shall we make a toast?
To victory.
To our comrades.
To the future of the star.
I say, Forename, whence came this─hic!─simulacrum that standeth beside thee?
...I see falsely? But Y'shtola and Thancred, but moments ago, employed the selfsame doubling magick...
All right, then─hic!─keep thy secrets...
You can always count on your friends to help you maintain perspective. A pity mine take a perverse pleasure in it.
I'd like to think I give as good as I get─though I'd fare better with the occasional assist from our consummate nodder.
But it's all in good fun. And I wouldn't have it any other way.
Leaving so soon? I suppose it's for the best...if you'd rather not explore the bottom of a bottle with Urianger.
I daresay the others would welcome your company as well. If you can find them, that is.
In any case, as long as you make the most of your time, then that is all that matters.
<snore>
<snore>
Oh?
Knowing them, they're probably dreaming about the celestial adventures to come.
Just as well. They've been running themselves ragged of late.
Unlike you and the others, I'm a few steps removed from the danger and excitement. The things you all get up to never fail to impress me. But by the same token, I can't help but worry.
Not only for your safety, but...but for your happiness. After everything you've sacrificed, you earned it a thousand times over.
From the simple pleasures of tucking into a hearty meal or...or collapsing into a comfortable bed...
To the grand triumphs of visiting legendary lands or finding true love─you deserve all the joy in the world.
There is so much that life has to offer. So much to be treasured and shared with those we hold dear.
So promise me this: come what may, you won't give up on your own happiness.
When you're out there, fighting tooth and nail, it's all too easy to forget.
But in the end, your passions will be your greatest strength of all. Remember that.
Hm... This feels...familiar...
Well, 'tis good to be...
Wait, what are you─? What am I─?
Gods, don't tell me I fell asleep?
Not that there's any shame in it...but you were sleeping like babies.
Ugh... How embarrassing...
Not a word to anyone. Understood? Not. One. Word.
I'm told that sleeping in proper beds of your own choosing is a much more effective way to prepare for battle.
So...what were the two of you doing here?
I had a few books to return to the library. Thought I'd take care of it while I could.
And you?
That's enough reading for one day. As we don't know how long we'll be away, I'd best return these books before we depart.
And eat. I'm absolutely famished. What about you?
I see... Perhaps I'll stop at the Last Stand on my way back.
Gods, I didn't realize I was so tired. One moment I was resting my eyes, and the next...
I should go and get some air. Maybe a quick bout of training. But not sleep. I'll sleep when I'm dead.
If nothing else, these two seem to be in good spirits. Still, I'll see them back to the annex for some proper rest, even if I have to drag them by the ears.
What...? Surely this isn't the first time you've seen me without my armor.
Oh? What brings you here?
Ah, so you were worried that the Leveilleur household might again be gripped by turmoil.
All is well, I assure you.
In my letters home, I had made mention of Estinien, you see.
My mother wished to meet the legend in person, and so we arranged to have a spot of tea together.
Where were you in my hour of need? Fell beasts I can face, but I'm not made for idle chitchat with lords and ladies...
Well, I for one thought you held your own. Mother was the picture of delight.
Hmph. I might've been delighted myself were we in a tavern with more agreeable drink.
The thought of fleeing crossed my mind, but what then? I'd never hear the end of it─least of all from Tataru.
I'm sorry... 'Twas not my intent to cause you such distress.
It's just...it was one of the things I didn't want to leave undone ere we set forth.
That's not to say I think we won't be returning...
Yet given what lies ahead, I did not wish to leave for later that which I could do today.
After all, tomorrow is never promised.
It's fine. Not like I had better things to do.
Besides...seeing you with your mother brought back fond memories of my own. Be we rich or poor, family is...family.
Well, it's past time we were on our way.
Wait!
Since I left home, I've made a great many mistakes. Mistakes for which I can never make amends. But through it all, you didn't give up on me.
To have returned here, with you at my side... It means more to me than you know.
Thank you. From the bottom of my heart.
Forgive me, but it needed to be said.
I'm the one who owes you thanks.
Were it not for you, I would not be alive today, nor come to terms with Nidhogg's spirit.
I am ever grateful.
Well, we needn't make it a competition. You know... This must be what Hydaelyn meant when She spoke about depending on one another.
However treacherous the road before us, together we will prevail.
No, I'm not. And I'm proud of that.
I know, and I won't let you down. Together, we'll show the enemy the strength of mortal will.
A few of our comrades decided to remain a while in Sharlayan after making their deliveries. Did you happen to pass any on your way here?
All that remains is to return to the annex and give my armor one last polish. I expect Alphinaud has maintenance to carry out on those...floating things of his, too.
Welcome back, Forename! Returned to catch a final few winks before embarking on your mission, I presume?
You'll be happy to know your chambers have been cleaned, and fresh linens laid out.
I pray you enjoy the sweetest dreams on this final night before the big day...
I pray you enjoy the sweetest dreams on this final night before the big day...
“You will never get what you want...not even the battle you pine for so dearly...”
In that transcendent moment, what was it that I sought in you?
And what was it that you sought in me?
And what was it that you sought in me?
And what was it that you sought in me?
How often have we thus assembled...
To combine our knowledge and seek solutions to the problems before us.
Back at the Waking Sands, it was all we could do to address the most minor of troubles. Who could've realized what we'd find when we began to look to the sources of the realm's woes.
At the Rising Stones, we made great strides and shared many moments. From the joyous...to the sorrowful.
We've had occasion to call other places home too.
Be it Ishgard or Kugane, we were fortunate to find sanctuary wherein we might take stock and continue our fight.
I was honored to host this company in the Crystarium. To stand with you all as we confronted the truth of the star itself.
And now, from this place, we go to fight the most important battle of all.
The Forum has sent word. The ark is ready.
The Loporrits, naturally, will be commanding the vessel.
They will see the eight of you to Ultima Thule.
Upon arriving, your objective is to find and vanquish Meteion.
As a final formality, the Forum bade me ascertain your resolve. So...are you certain you wish to do this?
We are.
Then ere you report to Thaumazein, I leave you with these words.
You must triumph.
What that means will differ for each of you.
To make it back home, or to simply avert doom, or perhaps something else altogether...
Yet whatever it is that drives you, I have faith in its power to see you through. So please─triumph.
Triumph, as we who remain behind believe you will.
Let us be off, then.
Wait!
Both Krile and I will be there to see you off, but as your receptionist, I feel I need to say this here.
Safe journey, all of you! And...be safe!
I suppose this is where we part ways. For now, at least.
Would that I had sage words of wisdom to share ere you depart... Mayhap the teachings of Galuf Baldesion will suffice?
"Surrender not to anger or hatred,“ he said. ”Look beyond them, and there find true strength.“
What one sees beyond is open to interpretation, I think, but for me, it would be the things I cherish most in life. Things I believe are worth fighting for.
Something to consider as you venture unto the sea of stars.
The others are already off to Thaumazein. Best not keep them waiting, eh?
Man is said to fear what he does not know, yet you would venture unto the greatest of unknowns.
I say to you, daughter of man, that you need not fear. So long as man shares a bond with dragonkind, so too does he share our kinship with the heavens, and our ancient home amidst the stars infinite.
I pray you go forth, and prove this bond of ours, tempered and tested, shall endure unbroken for a thousand thousand years.
First the great exodus, and now this...it seems there's no end to our work.
In truth, more than a few gleaners were distressed to learn that their earlier efforts were for nothing. It was no easy task convincing them that the new plan was for the best, I can tell you that.
I can't tell you every man believes this is the wisest course, but I can say that all will be forgiven if you deliver us from the coming doom. And if you don't, well, at least you won't get the earful I certainly will.
It's troubling enough that that brute Sicard left without warning, leaving me to carry all those cumbersome containers, but that he failed to be present to send you off is absurd. What could possibly be more deserving of his attention at a time like this?
It is no easy thing to say “leave the star to us.” But we must, and we will. As proud members of the Scions, we have a duty to uphold.
And we needn't do so alone. Those dark days when we were driven from the Rising Stones and hunted as traitors are a thing of the past. We have allies in abundance now.
Which is to say, you needn't worry about us. Go forth in the knowledge that the Scions will labor without rest in your absence.
Though our fellow Scions couldn't be here, they wanted me to tell you that, no matter what calamity may befall us, they will never give up, and neither should you.
No matter how far you may go, we will be with you in spirit. No matter how dark it may seem, your light will shine and endure.
Mistress Krile tells me your investigation into my theories on akasa─and its relation to the Final Days─has made clear the source of our woes.
I am elated to know my work was of some benefit, but I could not have shared it had you not rescued me from the tower that day.
I yet owe you a great debt, one I may never fully repay. But I shall try nonetheless!
Not only through my research, but through my desire to see you succeed, which I believe may influence the akasa in our favor, small though the effect may be. Yes, so long as we have hope, there is a chance we may influence the outcome of this calamity.
We were quite fortunate the Loporrits' hyperhopper was based on principles similar to those of aetherology. Integrating it with the ark's existing systems might well have been impossible otherwise.
We may have Sharlayan's wealth of knowledge at our disposal, but theirs is technology far beyond anything we have ever studied.
You are familiar with teleportation magicks, yes? The momentary conversion of the body into aether that it may travel via the Lifestream from one physical point to another.
Their hyperhopper enables transport through a similar method─but not one involving the Lifestream. Rather, it utilizes highly condensed aether to create an aetherial current of its own!
This current is exponentially faster and more powerful than the naturally occurring ones to which we are accustomed. So much so, in fact, that aetherial conversion of the physical form is not a prerequisite for traversal.
If you are concerned about side effects, such as aetherial sickness, you needn't be. You should emerge at your destination hale and whole...in theory. At the very least, I can assure you it is safer than the experimental aetherytes you used to reach Radz-at-Han.
Moenbryda has been on my mind more often of late. How different her life might have been if not for our research into teleportation magicks. Perhaps she would never have gained an interest in aetherological studies...
But to abandon our work out of misplaced guilt for who she could have been would be a disservice to the memory of who she was.
Nay, it was because of her that we found the resolve to carry on. And now we stand at the edge of a new frontier, with a ship ready to bear you unto the distant stars and beyond. This ark is as much her accomplishment as it is ours. I regret nothing.
So this is the ship that will bear us unto Ultima Thule...
That even Wilfsunn and Bloewyda should be in attendance is most unexpected, but I am nonetheless heartened by their presence.
For so many to see us off like this seems wholly unnecessary. Still...I'll not begrudge them for wishing us well.
This is the pinnacle of aetherochemistry. A synthesis of modern innovation and the ancient wisdom of Allag. The ark's engine appears to be capable of processing condensed aether in quantities I never thought possible.
I wasn't expecting quite so many people to be seeing us off.
They said work on the ark is finished, but you certainly wouldn't know by looking at it.
Let us hear what Father has to say.
I'll send word to the Alliance leaders the very moment the ship takes off. Obviously they couldn't be here, but I'm sure they'll be cheering for you every step of the way.
Quite the turnout, wouldn't you say? Then again, who wouldn't want to be present for a once-in-a-lifetime event?
The ark is missing one last─but very crucial─component before we are ready to take off. It should be arriving shortly.
All present and accounted for? Good.
As you will have heard, the ark is ready. All that remains is to board and be on your way.
I've seen my fair share of tight schedules, but this was bloody murder...
But we did it. We finished the ship.
It's safe, fit for purpose, and looks good to boot. Aye, it's a Garlond through and through.
I really don't know what we'd do without you. Thank you for everything.
Well, the work was hard, but we've learned a lot from it. After all, it's not every day you get tasked with building a starfaring vessel.
In case you're wondering about payment, the ongoing existence of the world ought to do. But feel free to throw in a colorful recounting of your journey on your return.
So, have you thought of a name?
A name? Wasn't everyone just calling it Father's “teeny-tiny toy boat”?
Well, seeing as its purpose has changed, I thought a more eloquent name was in order. I suggested as much to Fourchenault, who seemed quite amenable to the idea.
As you know, this vessel is the culmination of heretofore unprecedented collaboration.
And though said collaboration is owed to the Scions, there is another whose noble deeds made our work possible.
From a fragment of Dalamud, we obtained not only advanced materials such as refined adamantite, but the knowledge to traverse the stars.
And this fragment would not have found its way to us had the Archon Louisoix not fought to protect this world─and in so doing laid down his life.
Now that the vessel stands complete, I cannot help but wonder if it was more than mere happenstance...
If it was my father's intention to guide us here.
In the hopes that his guidance will see you all safely home, I name the vessel after that selfsame fragment of Dalamud he delivered unto us.
The starship Ragnarok.
Sorry for the wait! I got everyone you asked for, and not a one less.
What are you all doing here?
Oh, I invited them. The representatives of those tribes with religious inclinations.
You've done a fine job of readying the Ragnarok, but for it to take flight, we'll of course need the power of the Mothercrystal.
Given its immense size, however, transporting it would be an absolute logistical nightmare. Not to mention we'd need to shatter it into tiny shards for feeding to the engines.
But a brilliant idea came to me: we convert the crystal's energy into forms that can transport themselves!
Thou wouldst employ summoning...or should I say its precursor─creation magicks.
Care to explain for our benefit?
As you may have witnessed at Bestways Burrow, the Loporrits are capable of creation magicks, which they use to shape the moon's environment.
Yet simple though they make it seem, 'tis a highly advanced and exacting art. To perform it correctly requireth that the wielder holdeth the object in his mind's eye in clearest detail.
Hence the ancients' meticulous management of concepts.
Drawing upon this art, the Ascians conceived of summoning as we know it.
A derivative that replaceth the complexity of concepts with the simplicity of zealotry to make manifest a creation.
I see... By combining the Loporrits' magicks and the tribes' faith, we convert the Mothercrystal into primals of purer form and greater obedience.
Summoning as it was intended, one might say.
Indeed, indeed!
While Hydaelyn gave us the ability to use creation magicks, She forbade us from using it to make anything possessed of a soul─or similar.
She didn't say anything about fulfilling the desires of others, though. So! Borrowing our friends' faith, we'll create deities using the Mothercrystal's power, and send them to the Ragnarok!
Am I the only one here concerned about the risk of being turned into a tempered minion?
Oh, right, I was getting to that... From what I've read in Sharlayan tomes, it appears the Ascians incorporated an additional nasty element into their summoning method: the fervent desire to assimilate others into one's belief.
Beings thus created are instilled with the selfsame desire, and use their powers to enthrall people─starting with the summoner.
In contrast, our creation magicks─the original and the best, accept no substitutes─don't incorporate any of that rubbish, so there's no risk of tempering. I mean, if the being was on the scale of Zodiark, you might feel a little “tug”...but I think we'll be safe enough.
Truth be told, I do not understand the intricacies of this plan. But none of us would ever turn our backs on you.
When the avatars of our faith ran amok, you intervened without decrying we who birthed them.
Where others vilified and suppressed us, you offered understanding and friendship.
In gratitude, we will share with you the true expressions of our gods─not malevolent deities, but benevolent saviors!
All right, you lot, we're headin' to the aetherial sea. Stay in sight else you're liable to get lost.
Lead the way!
May we have a moment?
In anticipation of the day man might journey to the stars, we developed these.
Portable teleportation devices. One for each of you, designed to work in tandem.
Press the button on one, and in a matter of moments all eight will activate and send their owners back to the Ragnarok.
There is no telling what hazards you may encounter. If you find yourselves separated or lost, please do not hesitate to use them.
Be safe, all of you. And come back.
You as well. I pray you take care.
Looks like everything is in order, so I'll go ahead and board.
A few of my fellows will remain to assist with the summonings, but rest assured the vessel won't want for competent crewing.
If you are ready, then you should board as well. Go...and godsspeed.
So that was the covert operation Sicard was assigned? Hmph! No doubt he thinks we were all impressed by the way he barged in here, beastmen in tow, hero of the hour.
He leaves me with no choice but to give you the most spectacular of farewells. Yes, a display of such jubilance my arms may very well fall to pieces.
Ameliance will not be joining us, I'm afraid. She could not bear to watch our children embark on so perilous a mission.
Make no mistake─I feel the same. I cannot tell you how many times I had to step away from my duties, so distracted by thoughts of all the ways it could go wrong...
Even now a part of me wants to drag them away and forbid─ ...Well. Not that they would listen. So I will see them off with pride in my heart and a prayer on my lips.
For my children, and for this star they love so dearly, you must prevail.
The Ragnarok is a collaborative effort in every sense.
The culmination of knowledge from the world's greatest minds, both past and present. Without question the greatest ship ever built.
I'll have to remember to thank Tataru for her timely provisions of food and drink. Poor Wedge would've long since given up from exhaustion otherwise.
But now the rest is up to you. Come back safe, all right?
You haven't forgotten anything, have you? No repairs or commissions? A delivery from retainers, perhaps? ...No?
Well! If there's nothing else, have a safe journey!
The world cannot end now, not when we've but scratched the surface of the Loporrits' technological know-how.
So run along now, and do what it is you vaunted heroes do best. The world shall tremble before my genius soon enough, assuming you're able to prevent its destruction, that is.
So, the stage is set. I can but hope we are prepared to play our parts when we arrive on Ultima Thule.
The key, I suspect, may lie with Hydaelyn's parting message to us.
“Darkness and Light. Despair and hope. As goes one, so goes the other.” Knowing Meteion wields the power of despair, we must bring to bear hope in equal measure.
I am most grateful Wilfsunn and Bloewyda have devised a contingency should the need to flee arise, though I pray it shall not.
We must needs strive for victory to the last, that Etheirys and her people survive, and that her champions return home. Without exception.
I'd rather not spend any longer mulling over strategy.
None of us are strangers to despair. If that is the source of her power, we are ready for it.
Primal summoning...as it was intended... I never dared to consider they could be invoked without the danger of tempering.
Change has come quickly to this star, and greater change yet awaits in the days to come. All the more reason we must not fail.
Venturing quite literally into the unknown, we have to be ready for anything.
As I said before, whatever awaits us there, we will survive. We must.
Mother, Father... Grandfather.
We will save this star and return home. I promise...
The Ragnarok... And thus does Grandfather's legacy live on.
We mustn't waste any more time. Let us board, and set out for Ultima Thule!
