For Eorzea!
We must needs consider how the weapon will be brought to bear against us.
The Maelstrom will secure strategic points along the coastline.
In the meantime, the Flames will deploy at...
Be at ease, my friends. You have banished our doubts.
Pray leave the military matters to us, and retire to the Waking Sands. We will send word anon.
I cannot well express my relief. To think that the Alliance came so close to surrender...
But the fire in their hearts has been rekindled, and they will fight to the last.
This warmth inside... Did you feel it too, Grandfather?
I would know something─was that your power at work earlier?
Nothing of the sort. The leaders of Eorzea had lost their way─I merely helped them to find it again.
Oh, hello!...Yes, our party returned just a moment ago. How close are you?
It's all right, Cid.
We must needs plan our next move. Pray continue liaising with your respective nations. Cid, would you be our man in Ul'dah?
I'll be whatever and wherever you need me to be!
We haven't a moment to waste.
All right. Let's do this!
Thancred's fate weighs heavy on my mind. I cannot bear to think of him in thrall to an Ascian.
Mayhap you know this already, but the Ascians are immortal beings without physical form. Since time immemorial, they have fanned the flames of chaos from the shadows.
That they might work unseen, the Ascians entrap and possess mortal men by means of malign artifacts known as Crystals of Darkness.
One such Crystal may yet be the key to saving Thancred.
This is a Crystal of Darkness?
A mere replica, created using data obtained from anomalous crystals found across Eorzea.
It comes to us courtesy of the Students of Baldesion, our distant allies.
Even for an Archon, Thancred's talents are exceptional. We all had complete confidence in him.
It was for this reason that none among us foresaw the danger in sending him to investigate the Ascians alone.
Thancred had been striving to fill the void left by Louisoix. Yet it was plain that he was overtaxing himself.
Yeah... He would volunteer for everything and work till he was dizzy.
And the toll taken by his exertions made him vulnerable to Ascian influence...
The Crystal that binds Thancred must be somewhere on his person. If we could but destroy it, his Ascian possessor would be compelled to relinquish control over him.
You have proven the stoutest of allies, standing with us through thick and thin.
Yet the most perilous struggle is still to come. For the sake of the realm─and Thancred─I ask that you lend us your strength once more.
Thank you. From the bottom of my heart.
As I am sure you are aware, the realm was saved from certain doom five years ago by heroes known as the Warriors of Light.
What you may not be aware of is that your many feats in service to the Scions have prompted folk to make certain...comparisons.
I must confess, you do remind me of them.
Yet remember this: however glorious the past, it is the hero's lot to be judged on the deeds of the present.
A new darkness threatens the realm, and the people cry out for a savior.
I believe that you are she─a Warrior of Light, here in the present, guided by the Crystal's will.
Come, my friends! Let us fight to safeguard the future of our beloved Eorzea!
All present? Then let us begin.
We have received the details of the impending operation.
In what promises to be the largest single counteroffensive in the realm's troubled history, the Alliance will strike at every imperial stronghold standing upon Eorzean soil.
As might be expected, the operation will be complex, but you need not commit its intricacies to memory.
It is enough that each man understands his part and plays it to the best of his ability.
The finer instructions, you will receive at each staging point.
To begin, let us review the distribution of our forces.
From west to east─the Maelstrom of Limsa Lominsa, the Immortal Flames of Ul'dah, and the Order of the Twin Adder of Gridania.
Next, let us examine the locations of the imperial strongholds.
Near Limsa Lominsa, we have Castrum Occidens, situated in eastern Vylbrand, and Castrum Marinum, which lies to the south and east, in the midst of the Rhotano Sea.
Near Ul'dah, we have Castrum Meridianum to the north, and the coastal outpost at Cape Westwind which connects Castrum Marinum to the mainland by means of a magitek transporter.
Near Gridania, we have Castrum Oriens, which lies upon the eastern edge of the Twelveswood.
And finally, in Mor Dhona...stands Castrum Centri. A thorn in the heart of Eorzea.
The forthcoming operation will see Allied forces assault each of the aforementioned locations, with the ultimate objective of destroying the Empire's new weapon, housed within Castrum Meridianum.
As one might expect of the Black Wolf's seat of power, Castrum Meridianum boasts all but impenetrable defenses. If we are to breach it, we must needs isolate it from its sister strongholds.
To do otherwise would be to risk being caught 'twixt hammer and anvil.
The operation will comprise four distinct phases, all told.
The first shall see us eliminate one of the Black Wolf's most trusted lieutenants─Rhitahtyn sas Arvina.
According to our intelligence, the praefectus is due to visit the imperial outpost at Cape Westwind for an inspection.
When he arrives, we shall dispatch an elite adventurer unit to eliminate him. Forename, we would have you lead this assault.
Rhitahtyn is a peerless field tactician. Shorn of his leadership, the garrison at Castrum Occidens will be as a snake without its head.
Phase two will see us sever Castrum Meridianum's primary lines of supply.
As soon as Rhitahtyn's presence is confirmed at the coastal outpost, the Maelstrom will lay siege to Castrum Occidens.
At that very hour, the Lominsan Armada, helmed by the Admiral herself, shall move to blockade Castrum Marinum.
Meanwhile, in the Twelveswood, the Order of the Twin Adder will surround Castrum Oriens.
And they'll have the sylphs to help them! Frixio's been waiting for a chance to avenge these ones!
Phase three shall see us neutralize Castrum Meridianum's defenses.
Forming our main thrust, the Immortal Flames will march against the stronghold with all their strength. While the enemy's eyes are thus drawn outwards, another elite adventurer unit shall infiltrate the castrum.
Its mission: to disable the magitek field generator which protects the Praetorium, a fortress within a fortress wherein the Ultima Weapon is believed to be housed. Forename, we would have you take command once more.
Meanwhile, the Order of the Twin Adder will blockade the railway which connects Centri and Meridianum, preventing the timely arrival of reinforcements from Mor Dhona.
A wise precaution. The monstrous locomotive which runs back and forth between the two castra is capacious enough to transport a small army, by all accounts.
It is well the Garleans did not think to give it wings.
Once Meridianum's defenses have been compromised, the operation will enter its fourth and final phase.
This will see the Immortal Flames enter the stronghold and suppress the remnants of the enemy garrison.
...Allowing Forename's unit to pass unopposed into the Praetorium, where they will locate and destroy the Ultima Weapon.
By this feat shall the operation be deemed a success.
In addition to the Grand Companies, we can count upon the support of a variety of other parties, from the pirates of Limsa Lominsa to the Monetarists of Ul'dah. In all, the operation will involve no fewer than twelve major factions.
Legend holds that the Archons were twelve in one, and one in twelve...It is for this reason that our grand endeavor has been dubbed “Operation Archon.”
Countless free companies have also pledged their swords, and more join us by the day. At long last, all of Eorzea is rising as one.
As before, we Scions shall work in concert with the Grand Companies. Yda, Papalymo, Y'shtola─pray accompany your respective organizations on their missions.
Urianger, I would have you represent us in Ul'dah. Reassure the financiers that they have made a sound investment. When that is done, pray return here and aid in the coordination of our forces.
Tataru, please assist Urianger in any way you are able, and ensure that everyone is kept abreast of the latest developments.
Minfilia, Cid, and I shall accompany the main host in an advisory capacity. It will be our task to analyze intelligence as it comes into our possession, and make the necessary recommendations to command.
As Alphinaud mentioned, you are to lead the elite unit of adventurers whose task it will be to see each of Operation Archon's main objectives fulfilled. Yours is the most important role of all, and like to be the most dangerous. Pray choose your party well, and stint not in your preparation.
The battle for the future of the realm is about to begin. Together, let us show the Black Wolf the power of a united Eorzea!
Pray report to the Immortal Flames encampment situated to the north of here when you are ready to be briefed on your first mission.
I cannot stress this enough, but please be careful. May you walk in the light of the Crystal.
