Come, then, little ones. Let me show you the delights of my garden.
The time has come to play, my children. Hearken to my melody.
Grow, my children, grow! Show them the glory of your splendor!
I shall...bloom...again...
If we dried these leaves... Perhaps we could use them for tea!
...Why are you like this?
The garden is ruined. Ruined! Mark my words─you will pay for this!
I summon thee from flesh of stone.
With wings of dreams to grind their bones.
Why do you persist? Why will you not leave me be!?
<gasp> Gh-Gh-Ghosts!?
Oh come now, Alphinaud. Don't be silly.
Knights immortal, heed my call!
Seize the intruders who besmirch thy hall!
And by King's judgment see them fall.
I see you cannot be dissuaded from your misguided path. A pity...
Ahhh! Alphinaud, behind you!
Haha, very funny. I know they're not ghosts....At least I hope they're not.
You have sullied these halls long enough. Come, Lugus! Our guests yet want for company.
I do believe we now have not only their curiosity, but their attention as well.
Go, Lugus. Turn them to ash. I care not how.
Yes, set them alight with your undying flames. Burn bright until they are naught but cinders!
Perhaps now we have afforded ourselves an audience.
Now they have little choice but to hear our plea.
Phew. I'm glad for that to be over and done with.
We'd best leave the negotiations to Alphinaud and the Exarch.
Hmph. Well fought.
That was my fiercest familiar. Impressive...
Beq Lugg. 'Tis good to see you again after all these years.
And judging by your vigorous greeting, I daresay the feeling is mutual. To be sure, a simple shake of the hand would have sufficed by way of welcome, but I shan't complain.
But you must be wondering as to the purpose of our visit. We come to beg your assistance in a most urgent matter.
...Sh-Shake? Beg?
Our comrades' very souls are in danger. If we are to save them, we will need the benefit of your unsurpassed knowledge on the matter. Please, will you not sit and hear our plea?
Oh... How dare you. How dare you speak thus in my presence.
It was to escape such words of temptation that I hid myself from the world of men...
You are sinners one and all, and I swore never again to have any part in your affairs.
I can only imagine what terrible events forced you into a life of seclusion...
But I know that the Nu Mou are a good and noble folk. It is not in your nature to turn a blind eye to the plight of those around you. And in treating with us, I am certain whatever mistrust you feel for man will begin to...heel.
If you will not be satisfied... I suppose I could listen... After all, there's no harm in just─
No! No, no, no! I mustn't. Not again...
That damned court mage seemed to have the best of intentions too, and countless innocents died for my naivety!
You know not what you ask of me. What horrors my knowledge has wrought...
Of all the visitors I could possibly have... They're even more stubborn than I am...!
You wish only to save your friends? Nothing more?
Do you swear it?
You know of the plague!?
Then you know how dangerous soulcraft can be! Instead of saving your friends, you risk damning them. Are you sure you're willing to take that chance?
Oh, very well...
I will hear your petition, but that is all! And I expect fitting payment for my troubles...
Commensurate with your contribution to our cause. No more and no less, I promise you.
With that settled─might I impose upon you to join us at the Crystarium? I'm afraid the nature of my friends' predicament calls for absolute secrecy.
There you are. The others have gone ahead to the Crystal Tower with Beq Lugg.
For the record, I truly wish we hadn't had to resort to using such words when treating with them. I have ever sought to convince, not compel. Yet I cannot deny that a part of me is glad Urianger shared his knowledge of the Nu Mou with us. Had he not, Beq Lugg wouldn't be here.
Speaking of whom─we should hurry. To keep our guest waiting would only add insult to injury.
We mustn't dally here any longer, Forename. If Beq Lugg is to hear the truth of our travails in the First, you of all people should be present.
Do you have business with the Crystal Exarch? Just say the word, and I would be happy to escort you to the Ocular.
I'm sorry... You mean to tell me not only that the return of night was your doing...
...But that you hail from another world as well!?
Everything we told you─of the Source, the shards, the seven Umbral Calamities─all of it is true.
I realize how fantastical it sounds, and I would not blame you for doubting our testimony...
But given your expertise, you must surely have noted the peculiar nature of their souls.
Any other time, and I would have dismissed your stories as balderdash and flummery. But upon closer inspection, 'tis plain their souls are far denser than is normal. And that they do not possess true bodies.
Save you. Your body is your own.
And your soul is the densest of them all.
As I said before, were it not for their heroism, the skies over Norvrandt would still be awash with Light, the realm yet at the mercy of Vauthry and the sin eaters.
After all they have done for our home, seeing them safely back to their own seems the very least we can do.
Your tale is intriguing. Yes, very intriguing indeed. Simply to hear it is fitting payment in itself.
As for your friends...I can but agree. Their valorous deeds on behalf of Norvrandt are deserving of recognition. Of their own fitting payment.
You will help us, then?
I will. I would see my knowledge put to good use for a change.
I do have one condition, however. I am not the spry young Nu Mou I once was. As such, I will require assistance in my fieldwork and testing.
It would be our pleasure. We will be laboring for our own benefit, after all.
You have spun quite a tale. But tell me─have you given any thought as to how you might return to your world?
...White auracite, you say? An intriguing proposition.
But one which fails to account for the present state of your souls.
They have become highly charged, likely as a consequence of having maintained tangible forms for so long. In such an energetic, unstable state, there is no telling what may happen to their souls within the auracite. They could very well become immutable to transference, never to be restored to their bodies.
Then...would it be possible to force our souls into a state of dormancy, prior to transference?
In theory, yes. But the soul is not a candle to be snuffed out and relit on a whim.
Well, that sounds ominous. What exactly would rendering our souls dormant entail?
In order to maintain a corporeal form, your souls constantly draw aether from your surroundings. This process must be halted, and the resulting surfeit of aether removed.
Your minds would ultimately be separated from these faux bodies of yours, rendering you incapable of interacting with the world around you. A cruel fate under normal circumstances, but one which will be rectified upon your return home.
Leaving lifeless husks... Like those poor souls at the Inn at Journey's Head─corrupted by the sin eaters, their aether made stagnant by the Light.
Corrupted? Stagnant...?
Might I see these unfortunate individuals?
Why? Do you think you might be able to help them?
I might...or I might not. But I shan't know for sure until I have seen their condition firsthand.
Then I would be glad to take you to them...on the understanding that you won't do anything which might increase their suffering.
It was my faith in man I lost, not my compassion.
Well, I see no need for all of us to accompany you. While you escort our guest to the Inn, I will assist Urianger in creating the requisite auracite.
I believe my talents would be better applied to that endeavor as well. Might I leave the three of you to assist Beq Lugg as necessary?
Let us make for Amh Araeng, then.
So this is Halric, is it? ...Yes, his aetheric balance leans perilously toward the Light.
Toward stasis...
What do you suppose will happen to him?
Not too bright, are you, boy? The same as all poor souls corrupted by the Light─he will become a sin eater.
You don't know that. We've defeated the Wardens and banished the Light from the night sky. Halric was completely unresponsive before, but now...
...<mumble>
Then perhaps there is yet hope. Hmmm...
If I may, there is a treatment I wish to administer to the patients.
What sort of treatment?
In the course of my studies of the soul, I once created a tonic which could temporarily stimulate the aether in one's body. After some refinement, it came to be used by the knights of Voeburt.
Then for far darker purposes...
Lest it fall into the wrong hands, I swore never again to make it. But for their sakes, I will break that oath.
It is not like to reverse the stagnation, mind you, but it should offer some measure of relief.
...
...
...Hm? What is this...warmth I feel in my chest?
Come now, you mustn't fret.
