Apologies, but we need a moment more to finish our sweep of the station. Wouldn't want to leave anything to chance.
Hail! It's good to see you, Forename.
We heard that you collapsed, but were given only the most cursory explanation. I'm glad you've recovered─and quickly enough to take part in the operation, at that.
As you will have heard, we've secured the way in. Some few are to remain behind to keep your escape route clear.
Our comrade from Lente's Tears will lead the way into the station. I'll join you soon.
I will send the others to meet you in the station below.
The station is right this way. Tread lightly, now.
This is everyone.
Consider the enemy well and truly distracted!
Time to go.
Our primary objective is, of course, the Telophoroi's leaders.
But should we be presented with an opportunity to vanquish Anima, we must seize it.
If it is indeed the force behind the towers, destroying it will deliver our allies from the Telophoroi's reign of terror.
And I, for one, would not see the Garlean people manipulated any longer, be it by primal, Ascian, or anything else.
Hear, hear. There's been enough of that.
We came to help the people of Garlemald, and that's what we're going to do. Together!
Till the very end.
The train should be along any moment now. Prepare to board, everyone!
It's likely that Anima, at least, will notice when we enter the tower. There's no point in trying to stay hidden after that.
So when the time comes, I say don't overthink it, and cut a path straight through!
The train we're boarding is meant to carry supplies and armaments and the like.
With any luck, we can slip past the tempered as they go about loading the freight.
Strange. Though this will be a more fearsome fight than any Naadam, I feel at peace...
Maybe it is because I have Sadu, Magnai, and you at my side.
Maybe it is because we fight for all Xaela, and more peoples besides. There is but one path─that which leads to victory!
Your comrades tell me that the Telophoroi abducted you on the selfsame eve they so rudely interrupted our meal. A brazen feat that would make a Buduga proud.
But even had it not ended poorly, it was a disappointment in many respects. I have decided that when we return triumphant, the Oronir will hold a far grander feast on the Azim Steppe. You have permission to attend.
Aye, aye, kill no man. I have not forgotten your instruction. I must settle for crushing the ironmen's toys. Their blue blood will feed my flames!
We were only able to ascertain that the tunnel connects to the tower. I fear I have little to offer as to the details of the interior or present situation therein.
If Fandaniel is to be believed, we don't have the luxury of time to scout ahead, so we'll have to trust in your instincts. They've served us well enough thus far.
'Tis no meager delight to watch Alisaie and Alphinaud grow more resolute in mind and heart.
And remarkable though their accomplishments may be, I doubt not that they are destined for still greater things.
Grant them thy protection, Master Louisoix. I implore thee...
If Fandaniel truly is Amon, to create a gate through which a primal may pass will not be beyond him.
From what I gather, he was utterly brilliant─and utterly mad.
Assuming Fandaniel intends to make Zodiark serve as a catalyst for the Final Days...
One cannot but wonder if he willingly parted ways with the other Ascians long ago.
Surely they would not have permitted the very god they created to forestall the world's end to be used in such a way.
When Zenos murdered Varis, Gaius was upon him in an instant. Seldom have I seen such fury.
I won't pretend to know the bond they shared, but pain, fear, rage...I know them well. I know what can drive a man to drown in them.
Though his homeland may have wished for his blade, my lance will roar in its stead.
I'm only too aware that our intervention may not be what many of Garlemald's people want or need right now.
Not every tragedy can be laid at the feet of the Telophoroi. Certainly not that of Licinia and her sister.
Nevertheless, we must follow our conscience, and mine has led me here.
Much as I'd like to be the one to wipe the grin off Fandaniel's smug little face, I haven't lost sight of why we're here.
Our ultimate goal is to prevent the Telophoroi from doing any further harm, no matter how.
But if I do get the chance to introduce my fist to his jaw─and gods, do I hope I do─I won't turn it down!
Now or never!
We'd better clear the train of threats before we arrive, or things could get nasty!
Unworthy curs!
The Telophoroi's reign ends this day!
Hyah!
Yah!
Here I come!
Fall!
Pitiful!
Stand back!
Fall!
Kneel!
Bow before the Sun!
An opening!
Charge!
As one!
We're slowing down! Our destination must be close.
Captives!
Look, captives! Help me free them!
Here to be tempered, no doubt!
You may leave them in our care!
We're here to help!
For the Empire...
All hail...the Emperor...
Glory...be...
A moment's reprieve...From here onwards, we should split into three groups to divide their attention.
An engineer and his creation, I presume.
