A chocobo egg has gone missing? Hm, well let me think.
Now that you mention it, the chocobos were making quite a racket earlier. So much so, in fact, that I ran over to check on them, almost flattening a passing peddler in my haste. I didn't find anything out of the ordinary, though.
Hm? Could I describe the peddler? Oh...he was an Elezen fellow─didn't recognize his face. Seemed awfully twitchy. Oh gods, you don't think he...? Why in the hells didn't I accost him!?
Have I seen any odd characters about? Aside from yourself, you mean? Not that I recall.
I did see someone calming the birds, but only from a distance. I assumed it was Luquelot...
But if you say he was away from the stables at the time...then who was that with the chocobos?
There can be no mistake, then. The egg was indeed stolen.
And from what you have told me, this was no simple robbery.
That the culprit should take only Leia's egg and disregard all the rest tells me we are dealing with someone well versed in chocobo breeding. I am sorry to say that the individual in question is like to be a citizen of my native Ishgard.
Leia, you see, is of the bloodline of Ouranos─one of the greatest birds ever to grace an Ishgardian stable.
Many a man in my homeland would give his right arm to possess one of Leia's eggs... Gods, I should have foreseen this! We must give chase at once!
Hold your chocobos, Luquelot! If this egg thief's from Ishgard, like you say, why'd he go runnin' off towards the Tam-Tara Deepcroft? Unless I've got me mental map upside down, that's the opposite direction.
W-Well, yes, but...he may seek to lay a false trail, or...uh... Bah! The why of it is not important! Leia's egg is all that matters! Adventurer, I beg of you, hunt the scoundrel down and take back what he stole!
Well, at least you ain't plannin' on chasin' after him yourself...wherever he's from.
We may work wonders with our birds, Forename, but acts of derrin'-do ain't exactly our field. If you don't mind, we'll leave that end of things to you.
With luck, you may catch the thief on the road to the Tam-Tara Deepcroft, but do be careful─we cannot be certain he is working alone in this.
