Just passing through, or will you be staying a while?
...Fufulupa sent you all this way because of a late letter? <sigh> The boy is still far too earnest.
Despite my demotion, he continues to call me Captain. I suspect he has no idea what it means to be transferred to Lost Hope either.
The Brass Blades don't give a Qiqirn's arse about this settlement. No one in Ul'dah does.
All here have been forsaken, adventurer. The refugees, their protectors. And you will be, too, if you're seen associating with us.
Thank you for the letter. Now, for your own good, leave.
I thought I told you to get out of here. What, looking for a chance to do some good? <sigh> I guess I can't force you to leave. Damn stubborn adventurers, the lot of you. Fine, then. Listen well.
A band of outlaws has taken up residence at the Quiveron Manse on the ridge to the south.
Their leader has styled himself heir to Eolande Quiveron, the Syndicate member who died in the Calamity. <spit>
The baron and his cronies are naught more than a pack of jackals. They prey on the people of Lost Hope, robbing them of what little they have.
I myself cannot act without endangering the refugees, as they know my face and will retaliate against Lost Hope. You, however, are not known to the bandits or their allies. If you wish to help us, then deal with the baron.
So it is done? Good. I hope that wretch died screaming.
Ul'dah is more prosperous than ever, some say. That may be true for the Syndicate, but none of that wealth has trickled down to the smallfolk.
It's all a mummer's farce. One day, I refused to play my part─and so I was made to leave the stage.
Aye, my time has passed. The Brass Blades of the Rose must look to others for guidance.
As you may have noticed, I'm in no shape to leave Lost Hope right now. So, in my stead, I'd like you to return to Horizon and give this dagger to Fufulupa.
Although it's just an old, ornamental dagger, it belongs with the Brass Blades of the Rose.
Aye, I should've given it to the boy before I came here...
Ah, Forename! I received word from Captain Leofric the other day. Thank you for delivering the letter for me!
Wh-Why do you have that dagger!? Only a captain of the Brass Blades of the Rose is permitted to possess it!
Captain Leofric says I am to have it? There must be some mistake!
He couldn't possibly mean to tell me that─ No, no, of course not. I am not worthy to wield it.
Nevertheless, I shall respect the captain's wishes and take the dagger into safekeeping until he comes to reclaim it.
The Brass Blades of the Rose have need of your assistance once more, Forename!
Thaumaturges from the Ossuary are presently surveying the Footfalls for ancient relics.
As the area is rife with wild beasts, the Horizon garrison has been charged with their security.
But Captain Baldewyn sent only a handful of Brass Blades! Despite his assurances to the contrary, such a small unit cannot possibly be sufficient to protect our patrons.
I would have you offer your assistance to my comrades. Pray travel to the Footfalls and speak with Totoruna.
