Dear adventurer,How fares your journey? Mine continues, and I wake up to the sound of birdsong and lie down to sleep beneath the moonlight as I seek unblazed trails.
Long ago, when an adventurer aided me, I was made to realize how alike we are. Deep down, we are simply travelers who thrill to make new discoveries. Thus do I write this letter now, in hopes of recruiting such like-minded souls to join me on an expedition.
If you at all share in my desire to make the uncharted charted, then I invite you to seek me out at the Drowning Wench in Limsa Lominsa. Eagerly do I await your coming.
If you at all share in my desire to make the uncharted charted, then I invite you to seek me out at the Drowning Wench in Limsa Lominsa. Eagerly do I await your coming.
No luck over here so far... How about you?
A blue chocobo! Yes, this is the one!
All that's left, then, is to talk to Kipih. Do you know where she is?
She went to the Weavers' Guild, saying that she had business there.
Hm, perhaps she's buying clothes...
At any rate, I'll look for her there. Thank you!
For this, too, might I trouble you to accompany Nhagi? Afterwards, I ask that you tell me how events unfold. I shall await you at the Ruby Road Exchange.
If you are willing, please accompany Nhagi when he speaks with his sister. I am most eager to know what lies ahead for our young adventurer.
You're here too, Forename? I must confess, I'm feeling rather nervous, so I appreciate your presence.
Oh dear, you came to find me? My apologies for taking so long.
So, Nhagi. Were you able to find the answer?
Aye. To begin with, I want you to look at this.
An explorer is assembling an escort for an expedition? Certainly sounds exciting.
In wanting your approval, I was determined not to rely on others. But a part of me dearly wanted to be part of the expedition. To go where I dare not set foot alone. So I've decided that I will answer the invitation.
Then...this means you've given up on trying to do everything alone?
I had wanted to prove to you that I'm capable─that I'm no longer a burden. And in my obsession, I lost sight of why I became an adventurer in the first place.
To see what lies beyond the horizon and lend a helping hand to those I meet... That's what drives me, and I was able to remember this thanks to Miss Momodi and Forename.
And whether or not you approve, I want to continue adventuring for my own reasons. Is...is that all right with you?
Didn't you just say you didn't need my approval? But to be clear, I never actually intended to stop you.
Do you remember what you once told me, Nhagi? Shortly before the Calamity struck.
