Yes, the scholarch was here a short while ago. He offered me advice on my current research project.
Though we spoke at length, I don't recall him mentioning where he was planning to go next. When we parted ways, he went down the corridor. Perhaps to one of the auditoriums?
It's strange seeing Makers' Meet so empty. People usually treat it like a common room...
Ah, I remember you.
I pray we have not caught you at an inopportune moment. We wanted to offer our thanks for your kind words in the Forum.
Well, I could hardly let that inquisition go unchallenged.
I've always believed that curiosity should be nurtured, not stifled. Thankfully, a majority of my colleagues agreed. A slender majority, aye, but a majority nonetheless.
Had the vote not gone our way, we would be having a very different conversation, if any at all. Though I'd like to think you would have not given up on our cause─I'm told you paid a visit to the annex afterwards?
Yes, that's right. I was hoping to speak with the grandchildren of my dearly departed friends Galuf and Louisoix in a less dour setting, but it seems I'd just missed you.
I still can't believe how much you've grown. If only your grandsires could've seen the way you presented yourselves to the Forum. Why, it fair brought a tear to my own eye!
You must have the patience of a saint, putting up with this lot and their antics─never mind Matoya's prize student.
Luckily, I know a thing or two about managing unruly younglings. If you ever need advice, don't hesitate to ask!
If I may, there is a rather more pressing matter we wish to discuss. What can you tell us of this “duty” that the Forum must fulfill?
Nothing, I'm afraid. Like all humble servants of the Forum, I am sworn to secrecy.
Or rather, I couldn't tell you if I tried.
Our duty is of the gravest importance. Furthermore, if the particulars were made public, it would incite widespread panic.
As such, those entrusted with this duty have been bound by an enchantment, which prevents us from speaking of such matters without the express permission of the Forum.
How is that even possible!?
Hahaha... It's been some time since I last gave a lecture. Please, take a seat.
Ahem! We shall begin by reviewing the fundamentals of aetherology.
The aether which imbues us with life can be categorized into three forms.
Two are of the incorporeal sort, the soul and the memory. Can anyone tell me the third?
Yes, very good!
Not entirely inaccurate, but nor is it the answer I was looking for. That would be “corporeal aether.”
The answer is...corporeal aether.
This is the form with which the layman is most familiar.
Consumed by even the simplest of daily activities and replenished by the food and drink that sustain us, this form of aether is in constant flux.
In contrast, the aether that comprises the soul is rarely subject to dramatic change. The same can be said for memory, as the two are intrinsically linked.
Picture the soul as paper, and memories as words written upon it.
Now, what would happen if that paper was doused with ink─the same type of aether as comprises the memories?
It would blot out everything that was written.
Precisely. We would be unable to recall the memories, and any activities that depend upon them would be hindered as well.
In fact, this exact phenomenon was observed on a vast scale not so long ago. And what might that have been?
The Seventh Umbral Calamity...
The people of Eorzea vividly recall Bahamut breaking free of the lesser moon and raining hellfire down upon the realm.
But no one could seem to remember the events that followed immediately afterwards.
Indeed. To this day, we have yet to determine whether it was an unintended consequence or a deliberate act.
The enchantment which binds me and the rest of the Forum is based on a similar principle. And yes, it is a contravention of the Sharlayan prohibition against the practice of memory manipulation.
Only when a new member is inducted and told of our great duty are they subjected to the process.
A necessary evil. You have my word that it would never be used to manipulate the populace.
I should hope not. But can this enchantment be dispelled and your memories restored?
If nine-tenths of our members give their approval, then the process may be reversed. Then, and only then, would we be able to speak freely to others of our sacred duty.
Barring that, we must wait until we return to the aetherial sea...
For there we will be purified. The blots upon our souls washed clean...
And our memories drift apart and dissolve. Rather defeating the purpose, I suppose.
But there are those memories that are indelibly etched upon our souls, some believe.
What happens after that?
We are reduced to pure aether, coalesce with that of others, and create souls anew.
Alternative schools of thought assert souls remain whole and return to the corporeal world, reborn into another form.
Both theories have their proponents. Personally, I consider each equally probable.
Well, I think that's enough education for today, now that I've given you some food for thought─or rather, an entire banquet!
I would remind you that although I'm unable to assist you with certain matters, the resources at my disposal may still be of use to you.
I'll arrange for you all to be given the run of Phenomenon. Of course, as associate to our alumni and the Students of Baldesion, this privilege is extended to you as well, my friend.
Oh, and I suggest you speak with Qih Aliapoh. She's well known among the artisans of Sharlayan, and her network of contacts may prove useful in your search for knowledge. I wish you all the best in your pursuits, wheresoever they may take you.
While Scholarch Montichaigne is best known for his role as head of the Studium, he is said to be one of the finest mages Sharlayan has ever produced.
Having seen for myself the ease with which he weaves extraordinarily complex and powerful magicks, I have no reason to doubt the claim.
Some of my earliest memories are of Scholarch Montichaigne, actually. He was a close friend of our grandfather.
He would come for tea and amaze us with his tricks, much like his demonstration with the paper and ink. He's a huge part of why I wanted to enter the Studium in the first place.
Well, that's given me much to mull over. I feel as though we're one step closer to understanding the Forum's true motives...and the mysteries of life itself, for good measure.
It's funny─ I came here with the intent of expressing my gratitude, only to leave more indebted than before. I've a feeling his friendship and support will be a great boon to us in days to come.
And on that note, let's head back to the annex. Perhaps on the way, you could better acquaint yourself with Qih Aliapoh as the scholarch suggested, while I share our findings with Raha.
You'd better not let your guard down around Qih. One small favor becomes another, then another, and before you know it, you'll be running to the other side of the world in search of a bottle of wine or some other rubbish.
Then again, it might make for a welcome change of pace from your usual heroics, and as the scholarch said, it could also lead to interesting discoveries.
Having spent most of the time in Thavnair, I've yet to fully grasp the lie of the land here in Sharlayan. Even finding my way to the annex proved a challenge.
Estinien returned not long after we'd departed for the Studium. A shame that he missed the chance to attend our lecture with the scholarch... Or perhaps not.
It seems I've done an adequate job of relaying Scholarch Montichaigne's lecture to Raha. Given his experiences in the field of souls and memories, he had no trouble understanding it.
Ah, welcome back. From what I hear, your trip to the Studium proved most educational.
While you were away, I received word from our fellow Scions.
As expected, news of the warding scales was met with much joy. Preparations are now underway to bring the leadership of the Grand Company of Eorzea and the Eastern alliance together to determine a way forward.
Our friends have asked that we bring the scales in our possession to Limsa Lominsa.
So the time has come for us to go on the offensive?
It's too early to say for certain, but that does seem to be the way the winds are blowing.
I, for one, can think of no reason to oppose such a plan, but let us see what awaits us in Vylbrand.
Let's start by getting the scales out of storage. Give me a hand would you, Estinien?
Phew... I didn't realize these crates were so heavy.
I shouldn't complain, though. Vrtra and the alchemists of the Great Work put their heart and soul into each and every one of these scales, so you must treat them with the utmost care.
Are you not coming with us?
As much as I would like to escape the Forum's watchful gaze, I've little choice but to stay behind.
We're already on thin ice, and if I─in my capacity as our official representative─were found to be consorting with foreign powers... Well, you can imagine how that would go.
I shall remain here, and do my utmost to avoid ruffling any more feathers as I await word from Master Matoya and our other allies.
With luck, we'll soon have good news of our own to share.
The tide is about to turn─ I can feel it. To Limsa Lominsa!
If you learn aught of interest, be sure to let me know! In the meantime, I will do what I can to aid our cause, though I fear that will be precious little given the circumstances.
Ah, I was told to expect you. As you may or may not be aware, the Admiral is at present entertaining the Elder Seedseer and the sultana.
Three of the most powerful women in the world in one room... Do you need a moment to prepare, or shall I show you to them?
My apologies for calling you away from Sharlayan at such short notice.
On the contrary, we are honored and grateful. And pleasantly surprised to be joined by such esteemed company.
'Twas only right that this discussion be conducted in person.
We are locked in a war of attrition. Our forces struggle to contain the threat posed by the towers, and it is only a matter of time before we are overwhelmed.
Victory will only be claimed through decisive action, and we have taken the initiative to set the wheels in motion.
It is reassuring to learn we are all in accord...
...But might I ask what your plan entails?
It hinges entirely on the warding scales and our ability to utilize their potential to the fullest.
During your time in Sharlayan, the allied nations have been engaged on separate fronts, with no end in sight.
To make matters worse, a surge in abductions of kobolds, Sahagin, Ixal, and Ananta have given rise to an increasing number of primals as well.
But your triumph in Radz-at-Han has given us cause to hope once more.
The time has come to free ourselves of this menace.
And it is you, the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, who have shown us the way!
While the bulk of our forces will continue to hold the Telophoroi at bay, we will dispatch our finest to strike at the enemy's heart: Garlemald.
These brave few will be the Ilsabard contingent.
To think such progress has been made in so short a span!
Its objectives are twofold.
The first is to provide aid to the people of Garlemald.
As previously reported, countless imperial soldiers and civilians have been tempered. Robbed of their free will, they serve the Telophoroi's every whim without question.
They too are victims. It is our duty to deliver them from their suffering, not for strategic or political gain, but because it is the right thing to do.
I do not ask that we set aside the decades of conflict and conquest─that we simply choose to forgive and forget.
I ask only that in choosing to remember we do not also forsake our compassion and morality, for without that, there can be no reconciliation. Only death without end.
Aye, on that we can all agree. Our second objective is the colossal tower that Thancred and Urianger observed in the capital.
Though its purpose remains unclear, there's reason to believe the smaller spires are merely a precursor of what's yet to come.
Until the Tower of Zot was toppled, we'd failed to make any headway─though the same could be said of the Telophoroi. They're certainly in no rush to press further into our lands.
I'd wager the spires' primary purpose is to divide and keep us occupied...while they work towards our annihilation.
This would appear to be substantiated by Y'shtola's analysis of the towers' influence on aetherial currents.
Based on her observations inside the Tower of Zot, the spires siphon aether from the land, consuming it to maintain their form. However, they draw forth far more than is required for this task alone.
The excess of aether remains unaccounted for, but we can be sure it is not being harnessed for our benefit.
It wouldn't surprise me in the least if it was being redirected to the larger spire in the capital. There's a logic in that. Regardless, once we have uncovered the truth...
...We'll bring their schemes crashing down, along with their infernal towers.
That's all well and good.
But what would you have us do? I assume it's more than handing over the scales and being on our way.
We want you and your scales to join the Ilsabard contingent.
Consider it an official request, from both the Grand Company of Eorzea and the Eastern alliance. Do you accept?
Perhaps you should be the one to answer that...
Couldn't have put it better myself.
Y'shtola, Thancred, and Urianger have already pledged their support, and are on their way to meet the rest of the contingent.
They were positive you would come to the same decision as they did. Luckily for all involved, their prediction was correct.
Once you have delivered the warding scales to Ala Mhigo, the contingent will embark on its journey to Ilsabard.
Raubahn and Lord Aymeric are overseeing preparations, so I suggest you make yourselves known upon arrival.
Pack warm clothing─furs and the like. Without it, the cold will do you in before the Telophoroi so much as draw steel. As for us, we'll keep the enemy busy while you're gone. They're not the only ones who can create a diversion.
Now go, safe in the knowledge Eorzea will be as you left it─or better─upon your return.
Ah, fancy meeting you here. I trust our mutual friend is settling into life as a Scion?
Collaboration never was his forte. The moment the fighting ended, off he'd go, like a gaelicat swept up in a strong breeze.
But rest assured, he will always be there when you need him. Probably.
If Aymeric asks after me, say I'm getting on fine and leave it at that. Don't you dare breathe a word about the cord.
You know, I'm quite looking forward to seeing who's been selected for the Ilsabard contingent. I've a few people in mind. Care to make a friendly wager?
I'll admit, this is all rather daunting, though not quite in the way I was expecting...
We'll be standing shoulder to shoulder with our alliance's finest. The best of the best. The Warrior of Light, and...well, me.
It's silly, I know. Perhaps this is my way of distracting myself from the part I should be worried about...marching into Garlemald.
I must quiz Thancred and Urianger on the conditions we can expect in Garlemald. I know it's cold, but how cold? Will I need to keep my ears covered? They can be a bit sensitive at times...
Ah, the wanderers return! You've been busy, bringing down a tower and producing the keys to destroying the rest of them.
You should be proud. Those warding scales of yours are what's made this whole venture possible.
Will you and Lord Aymeric be leading the contingent?
Regrettably, no. Our role is to organize the various delegations into a cohesive unit. Once we have seen you all off, it's back to our respective posts.
We dare not neglect our duties for too long lest our defensive efforts fall into disarray.
And just between us, there was a fair amount of opposition to the formation of the Ilsabard contingent. The very suggestion that we send out some of our finest troops behind enemy lines to render aid unto the Garleans has made me rather unpopular in certain quarters...
Hmph. Can't please them all.
Sadly not, though I do my best. Truth be told, I'd much rather be at your side, charging into the fray. Alas, I've battles of my own to fight, where words may serve me better than any blade.
I hate to say it, but Lord Aymeric's struggles mirror my own.
For the time being, the best we can offer you is the peace of mind from knowing Eorzea is in safe hands.
As you fight the good fight in Ilsabard, I and the other commanders will do what we can to convince the naysayers that our cause is just.
Thank you. Both of you.
We meet again...
Word of your exploits travels quickly. From what I gather, the protective talismans you obtained led to the formation of this expeditionary force.
My contribution on this occasion is but a minor one, that being the information I have shared with Maxima. For the sake of the people of Garlemald, may the fates be on your side.
So you're not coming with us.
Strange. I thought you'd have a stake in this.
I do. The Telophoroi have laid waste to my homeland and enslaved my people.
But though every mote of my being cries for vengeance, I cannot be the one to deliver it. My presence alone would place the entire mission in jeopardy.
I stand accused of murdering Emperor Varis and plunging Garlemald into chaos. Were I to travel with the Ilsabard contingent, it would give my countrymen ample cause to question our motives.
Conversely, those who believe me innocent may instead celebrate the return of a former legatus and attempt to raise me to a position of leadership, further destabilizing the region and complicating the contingent's mission.
Whether I am branded a villain or hailed as a hero, I would only hinder your efforts.
For what it is worth, you have my gratitude.
You and your comrades have the strength and courage to deliver my countrymen. I am certain of it.
A fair point, but so long as you refrain from announcing your arrival to all and sundry, the average person should have no inkling as to your identity.
Although your titles and deeds are common knowledge, only a select few would recognize you on sight alone.
Perhaps one day, they will learn that the Warrior of Light is not a demon to be feared, but a woman deserving of their trust.
In light of Gaius's rather unique circumstances, I instead will assume the role of your guide.
Though I may have defected for political reasons, my love for Garlemald endures. I would stop at nothing to protect her and her people.
Well said. Might I ask you to escort our friends inside?
You might even bump into an old acquaintance or two. And if I don't see you again ere you depart, may the Fury guide and protect you. All of you.
I suppose it's easy for some people to forget there are civilians in Garlemald, too, when the only imperials they've ever known are soldiers...
With the knowledge that our allies will hold the line in our absence, we may devote our attention to the Ilsabardian front.
So that's Gaius Baelsar. The horrors he must have seen... Many of his own making, I do not doubt.
Like Gaius, I too stand accused of Varis's murder, though I am rather less recognizable on sight. Still, it's something to bear in mind once we reach Garlemald.
I neglected to mention earlier that we received a report from our troops that may be of interest to you. While engaged with a lunar primal, a great wyrm swooped down from the skies above and came to their aid.
This wyrm, as described, was the spitting image of Tiamat. It would seem she too continues to wage war against the Telophoroi.
Once we've seen the contingent on its way, I will return to my duties here in Ala Mhigo.
As many of our most capable will be traveling with you to Garlemald, we who remain will have to fight that much harder to make up the difference. But let no man say I do not welcome the challenge. Aye, this old bull isn't ready to hang up his horns yet!
Regardless of how my countrymen receive you, the cold will not treat you kindly. Underestimate it at your peril.
The other members of the Ilsabard contingent are gathered in the Royal Palace.
I shall inform them of your arrival, so please make your way inside as soon as you are ready.
Ah, the remaining members of the Scions. Your friends and most of the Ilsabard contingent await you within.
Would you like me to see you through?
By the Twelve...
Glad you could join us. I hope you don't mind, but we went ahead and started without you.
As you can imagine, our traveling companions were eager to become acquainted. 'Tis a rare thing indeed to see such a diverse and talented group of individuals assembled for a single purpose.
We fight not only for the sake of Eorzea, but for the entire world─including the people of Garlemald. Much rides on the efforts of the Ilsabard contingent.
Indeed. Which is why I am glad to find myself in the company of many trusted comrades─yourselves included.
Lucia!
I have come at the behest of Lord Aymeric, who has honored me with the role of Ishgard's representative. For the good of all nations, not least my former homeland, I am determined to see this mission through to its end.
We have a hard road ahead of us, but walk it we shall. Together.
We too welcome this opportunity to work together once more. I have faith that, if there is a way to resolve this conflict, we will find it.
Allow me to introduce you to the rest of our company.
Everyone, if I may have your attention!
Might I ask you to speak first?
