You trespass upon my domain, tainted of the Light!
Drink deep of the sea's bitter draught!
Mine is the power to cleanse all things! Naught can withstand the relentless onslaught of my waves!
You challenge me with trickery? Fools! Your mortal contrivances cannot quell the raging sea!
My waters...are stilled... This...this is the blessing of Light?
Knowing the urgency of your business, I thought it best to refrain from making conversation during your past few visits. But today I will permit myself a few words. Ahem. I feel truly privileged to have had the honor of admitting a hero such as you. You are an inspiration to us all, madam! And on that note...The Admiral awaits you in the command room. <wink>
We Lominsans are sworn to strive “Till sea swallows all”─and swallow all it would have, had Leviathan prevailed. That we still strive now, we owe in no small part to you.
Not for the first time, you have delivered Limsa Lominsa from the wrath of a primal. Never has our nation known a stouter ally.
On behalf of my people, I give you my humblest thanks.
'Tis meet that I give thanks to old Mistbeard, too, for his fine solution. Whatever else he may have been, 'tis clear he was a resourceful soul. Would that I had a man like him in my service.
Before I set foot in these lands, I had no inkling that the people of Eorzea contended with such mighty foes. Suffice it to say, their existence came as something of a shock─as did the idea that they could be defeated.
This experience has served to remind me of the vastness of the world...and the boundless potential of man.
Though I am but a refugee in this realm, I would fain be of use to you in your fight.
Know that I am tutored in one of the foremost combat arts of the Far East. It may seem...outlandish to the Eorzean eye, but should any of your people care to learn, I would be pleased to initiate them.
And I will see to it that they are grateful. I have no doubt that your knowledge and skills will serve us well.
Besides, your art is not so outlandish as you think. Would you not agree, Master Thancred?
Naught escapes your searching eye, Admiral.
Few are privy to this information, but Limsa Lominsa is home to a certain...secret fraternity. Its members are trained in a form of combat not unlike your own.
By my judgment, it should not be beyond such individuals to adapt to the techniques I witnessed you employing with such admirable deftness.
I am heartened to hear this. I, too, noted a kinship between your style and mine own. Though it seemed to me that you fought differently in the beginning.
A-Aye, I suppose I did... What can I say? I am a man of many talents. Hahaha...
Though you may labor to believe it, Thancred was once something of a scoundrel, who fraternized with the criminal class in these parts.
Y-Y'shtola! You jest, of course!
But for a chance encounter with Alphinaud's grandsire, he might never have left Limsa Lominsa; or received an education in Sharlayan; or taken up his post in Ul'dah─which is where he trained in the blade, lest you wonder.
Minfilia─please!
It would seem there is more to you than meets the eye, Master Thancred.
Lady Yugiri─I am told that you and yours came to Eorzea seeking permanent resettlement, and that many Domans have since been engaged as frontier hands at Revenant's Toll. Mor Dhona is many things, but a place of refuge it is not.
Know that I would like nothing better than to furnish your people with a new home here on Lominsan soil. Alas, racked by instability as we are, our nation is in no fit state to take you in.
Yet I'll not have it said that we turned a blind eye to your suffering. Until such time as we can do more, I pledge to send provisions.
We are in your debt, Admiral. I realize that it scarce qualifies as repayment, but if it please you, I shall set about sharing my martial knowledge with your people at once.
You wished a word in private.
The better not to spoil the festive mood.
History repeats itself, Admiral. As the kobolds did before them, the Sahagin resorted to summoning their god over a territorial feud. They acted in self-preservation.
It may be that the Sahagin initiated this particular clash, but how it begins does not interest me so much as how it ends.
I have not forgotten our conversation, Y'shtola. I am aware that man bears part of the blame for the primals' existence.
Nor am I ignorant of the Sahagin's reason for acting. They sought to secure a place to breed and multiply, that their kind might survive. Self-preservation, as you say.
But we have as much right to live and thrive as they. If our own survival is threatened, are we to lay down our arms and welcome oblivion? Nay.
And so you kill, that you might live. Yet if living is a right, then that right belongs to all peoples, be they men or beastmen.
I'll not deny your reasoning. But when a storm gathers, it falls to me to see my people safely through it. That is my duty, and I shall do it.
As must we all, Admiral. Stay the course, then, but know that it will lead to no good end.
Man has ever put himself first and foremost.
To justify his actions, he clads himself in the armor of righteousness─though it be a fancy of his own making. In this, mayhap the Garleans and we Domans are not so different...
Eorzea has become as a raging sea. If we are to keep our heads above the waves, we cannot scruple to drown the man next to us.
When hopes of coexistence founder, strength must determine who has the greater right to live.
The Admiral has informed me of the arrangement. I have in my keeping a letter of introduction for Lady Yugiri.
To the south stands a gate leading to a pier for smaller fishing vessels. Look for an inconspicuous Hyuran man there, and present the letter to him. He serves as a gatekeeper of sorts.
Now, before you go, I am obliged to remind you that the members of the, ahem, fraternity to which you would be introduced abide in the shadows of Lominsan society.
They value their independence more highly than pirates, and are united by a bond stronger than mythril. To wit, they are invariably wary of new faces.
Though it be penned by the Admiral herself, mere words on parchment will get you only so far into their confidence. You must work for every onze of trust they place in you.
But here is the letter. Go to the aforementioned place, and show it to the aforementioned man. Oh, and...good luck.
