You've nowhere left to run, traitor!
Ignorant savages. Killing us will avail you naught.
For every imperial you cut down, a thousand more will come. Abandon this foolish endeavor and surrender. You may yet serve our righteous cause.
How dare you speak of righteousness! You who forsook kith and kin to serve conquerors!
Be glad I grant you this mercy.
What in the...?
Reinforcements? ...No─just one. Cut him down!
Thank you. Thank you, sir!
This one is...promising.
Who remains to offer us resistance?
A...a host of rebels led by Lord Kaien hold the enclave across the river.
Lord Kaien.
The king of─th-the former king of Doma, sir. They say he is one of the greatest swordsmen alive.
Is that what they say.
Who...was that...?
Surely you jest? That was Zenos yae Galvus, legatus of the XIIth─the crown bloody prince! I'd heard he was strong, but that...that was frightening.
That was...Lord Zenos...?
Everything you are─your power, even your face─it vexes me.
Go on. Lash out like the beast you are. At an emissary. And jeopardize the newfound peace between Doma and the Empire.
My lord was destined to lead us unto a glorious new age. Your light is nothing to his radiance.
I will cherish this moment─lock it away within my heart─until the day we meet again.
You look troubled, my friend. Was it something he said?
Of all the memories to witness.
I had my doubts about him, but I would never have guessed he was a disciple of Zenos.
My lord─
Calm yourself, Yugiri. I set no store by him or his enlightened brethren.
But if by treating with them there is even the faintest hope we might secure the return of our conscripted brothers and sisters, I must play this game.
After the way I risked their lives in the rebellion, I owe them that much.
My lord, you bear no blame for their fate.
If not blame then responsibility. They were prisoners and still I chose to fight, knowing they could be executed in retaliation.
But now we have a chance to bring them home. If it means bargaining with a monster, so be it.
My lord...
Besides, I think he likes me. Which is more than some can say.
It makes no sense. Why would he bother keeping up the pretense for so long, only to drop it right before the very end?
Perhaps he no longer thought it necessary, having secured Doma's cooperation in the prisoner exchange.
If he truly is a disciple of Zenos, 'tis possible emotions simply got the better of him. Remaining calm around the woman who slew his lord will have taken its toll.
Whatever the explanation, now is not the time for hasty reprisals.
We shall proceed as planned. The Red Kojin must be placed under surveillance and the Garlean prisoners made ready for the exchange...But you need not concern yourself with the details.
Leave the affairs of Doma to us. When the hour of the exchange draws near, we will call for you.
I should certainly hope so. Whatever the Empire's true intent, we would be on hand to play our part, either to defend Doma, or to help usher in a lasting peace.
I had thought we might use this time to return to Eorzea, but given the volatility of the situation, mayhap it would be best if we remained in Kugane.
Agreed. Between Yotsuyu's amnesia and Asahi's dubious agenda, I'd say we have ample reason to remain in the neighborhood.If anything should happen─anything at all─you must send for us at once.
Oh, I will. On that you have my word. Charting a path through this sea of troubles promises to be difficult enough. I am not so proud as to attempt the feat alone.
To Kugane, then. Tataru and the others must know of what transpired here.
Greetings, honored madam. Will you be entering the Ruby Bazaar offices?
...My. It seems you're all in quite the predicament. Well, should we receive any urgent missives from Doma, rest assured you will be the first to know of it.
Yes, of course. We're discussing ideas to replenish our coffers, but I suppose that all can wait if any urgent news should come through the office.
Ah... Ahem. About that... I wish to apologize, Tataru. It was reckless of me to make such a purchase without first consulting you. You may be certain, however, that I mean to reimburse the Scions, even if it means drawing upon my personal funds.
That's very thoughtful of you, but I'm sure it won't come to that.
If Soroban's business proposition is as promising as it sounds, Forename should have no difficulty wiping the red from our ledger.
Forgive me, Forename. It would seem I have unwittingly heaped my financial troubles upon you. I swear I will pay you back.
Though I fear I will struggle to cobble together anything of monetary value, knowledge I can gather in abundance. To start, I plan to investigate the divisions forming within the Empire. Mayhap Riol and his associates have heard something on the subject...
Regardless, the more we know about the politics of Garlemald, the better our chances of predicting the imperials' next move, which might yield you an advantage on the day of the prisoner exchange.
Knowing what we do of Asahi's apparent resentment towards you, I cannot say what he hopes to gain from it.
But if there is even the faintest chance that a lasting peace could be forged between Doma and the Empire, what choice have we but to try? Lord Hien had the right of it: Asahi may very well be a monster, but we must play his game. For now.
Arranging the prisoner exchange proved easier than I thought.
Yes, my lord will be most pleased. Everything is going according to plan.
Can you truly remember nothing? Nothing at all?
Were we...friends...?
Yes. We were good friends, you and I. In fact, I've brought you a gift.
I pray that one day soon, as you gaze into that mirror, you will remember the woman staring back at you.
It's so pretty...
Who are you...? Who are you...?
Who are you...? Who are you...?
