Who are you!? Stay away!
<pant> <pant>
So far, so good...
Is someone there?
I must be imagining things.
Better catch my breath...
If those beasts spot me, I'm done for.
I hope my luck holds...
Got to keep going... They're all depending on me!
Just a little farther!
This is it, the final spurt!
Phew... Still in one piece...
Wh-Who are you!?
Stay back! This house is packed with explosives! Take another step and I'll blow this place sky-high!
Please! We just want to talk!
I'm Alphinaud. This is my sister, Alisaie, and our good friend Forename.
We have no intention of hurting or taking anything from you or anyone else. I give you my word.
We and our comrades have come to provide aid to the people of Garlemald─
Aid!? You savages are the ones responsible for all of this! You did this to us!
We didn't, I promise you. One of the other reasons we came was to find out what happened here, in fact.
The Telophoroi are the ones to blame. They're the ones who laid waste to Garlemald, and they won't stop until they've destroyed the entire world. They're the enemy─our enemy.
On our way, we encountered imperial soldiers who had been made their thralls. Those poor souls are now in our care, and we are striving to cure them of their affliction.
You're the first person we've met who wasn't already enslaved... How were you able to escape the Telophoroi's influence? Are there any others like you?
...I'm sorry, I don't mean to overwhelm you. Let's start with introductions. Can you tell me your name?
I...my name's Licinia. As for how I've managed to stay sane...
I've been asking myself the same question. Ever since that night...and the roar, that terrible roar... And then the screams. I was screaming too, I think. I'm not sure. I can't remember.
Then came the silence. Everything was still.
It was like...waking up from a nightmare. I thought that maybe the fighting had stopped, so I stepped outside...
If your hells are real, I saw one that day.
I ran...past friends, people I'd known all my life. Eyes vacant. Dead. Staring at the sky.
Others were mad and violent. I saw them struggle with soldiers, but didn't stay to watch. I fled, as far as my legs would take me.
Do you have family here? Is this their home?
No, this is Victors' Spoils. A mansion for retired soldiers. Or it was, but now me and my─me and a few others are, um, borrowing it.
As for the explosives...I was making that up.
I just wanted to keep everyone else safe, and I didn't know if you were... <sigh> The truth is, our supplies are running low. You said you're here to help. Can you?
Of course! Whatever assistance we can provide, we will.
Thank you. I'd better tell the others first, though. Wait here.
This is everyone.
