What is going on here?
We were admiring your festival float. 'Tis a shame it's in such a poor state. Due to the recent storm, I gather?
Yes, we had to leave it exposed while we ushered our people to safety. With the float in this condition, there can be no Lifting of Wings. No Ihih'hana...
Ihih'hana! That's what the festival was called. I want to help you hold it!
Have you not seen our village? Homes are ruined, we're struggling to make repairs, and you want us to hold a harvest festival!?
I know how it sounds! But giving into misery never improved anyone's situation. A celebration of life and growth may help give you the strength to work through this tragedy!
The role of festival leader is mine this year, and there's nothing I would like more than to lift everyone's spirits...
But we don't even have enough materials to repair the float. We need abokixa for the missing eye, uyuipo wood for the poles, and feathers from the Wind's Chosen to adorn the tail.
Two of these I know─abokixa is a type of precious stone used in arcane equipment, and uyuipo wood is essential for crafting ceremonial instruments. These chosen feathers, however...
The Wind's Chosen is the victor of a competition in which the contestants see who can blow a feather the furthest using wind magicks. And that's something of a problem right now.
We Hanuhanu are gifted at employing such airy sorceries, but expend a great deal of mana when doing so. We are soon exhausted by the effort, and having no reeds to eat will only make it harder.
I think I understand. Your vibrant reeds grow quickly and vigorously─so much so that they stifle the development of nearby plants. They must be a potent source of the energies you naturally lack.
They are indeed. Owing to the poor harvest this year, we've been left enervated. And if we cannot gather the correct materials as dictated by custom, we cannot repair the festival float.
...Oddly enough, we may have just stumbled upon our solution.
The Wind's Chosen would, by necessity, have a natural gift for manipulating magical energies. Which means any feathers taken from the victor should be high in aetherial conductivity.
The float's construction also requires a stone used in arcane equipment, as well as timber favored for ceremonial tools. The demand for such specific materials must have an underlying reason...
Precisely what I was thinking. This boat of reeds is in fact an arcane focus of some kind.
So it does what? Unleash rays of searing light from its eyes or some such nonsense? Surely you jest...
While an intriguing supposition, I arrived at a slightly different conclusion. This boat of reeds is in fact an arcane focus of some kind.
I imagine you've already reached the same conclusion, but I believe this boat of reeds is in fact an arcane focus of some kind.
A focus? For what? ...Oh! Ihih'hana is a harvest festival, isn't it!?
That must mean the float was made to encourage healthy crops. So, if we repair the boat and hold the festival, its arcane powers might fix what's wrong with the reeds!
We won't know until we try, but 'tis a sound theory. Celebration, prayer, ritual ceremonies─these have all been known to elicit miraculous effects.
Wait, wait, wait. The float, a tool for magic? This is the first I'm hearing of it.
In the beginning, it may well not have been. After a good harvest year, there would be no reason to change it. But when the harvest was poor, new adornments were likely added, and those who performed the labor may have imbued their work with ardent hopes for a brighter future.
Through years of trial and error, the Hanu would have refined their festival float into a focus for harvest prayers.
Incredible.
I know you're practically fainting from hunger, but reviving Ihih'hana really does sound like the solution to all your woes. And I promise, we'll do everything in our power to help you!
I'm still not convinced about this focus business...but I accept your aid nonetheless. I will introduce you to the shipwright who's been maintaining the float these last few years.
He's replaced both the eyes and the poles before, so he should know where and how to procure what we need.
Then allow Alisaie and I to acquire the feathers. We will encourage the people of Ok'hanu to gather and vie for the title of Wind's Chosen by sharing with them our own reserves of mana.
I'll go with you. I carry some alchemical brews that may afford the same effect.
The three of us will visit the shipwright, then!
Not without me. I've worked hard to fix the float as best I can, and the responsibility is mine, after all.
I've...not introduced myself, have I? My name is Linuhanu.
Nice to meet you, Linuhanu. And certainly─let's all go together!
We're making progress now! The solution to Ok'hanu's woes is as good as found!
To find myself working alongside the Third Promise herself is...unexpected, to say the least.
Thanks to Wuk Lamat, we've found ourselves a promising way forward.
Experience and knowledge are valuable assets, but there is something to be said for following one's instincts.
I wonder what manner of shipwright repairs reed-woven boats...
The shipwright's name is Wuk Evu. He's a Xbr'aal who only moved to Kozama'uka a few years ago, but has since mastered our customs to an almost frightening degree.
He's especially strict when it comes to manners, so make sure to offer him a proper Hanuhanu greeting. We wouldn't want to offend him right before asking a favor.
A proper Hanuhanu greeting...? Oh, that one!
Don't worry, I remember how it goes!
Then we shouldn't have any problems. Let's head to Ok'bek'be, to the east of here.
Oh, it seems they have a place here where visitors can stay. Looks cozy.
Look over there! Do you see that big, winding staircase!?
This is Ok'bek'be, the Village of All. Those who drift into Kozama'uka from Tuliyollal and elsewhere are welcome to live here alongside the Hanu.
As for Wuk Evu, he lives and works in the House of Waters High, at the top of that large tree nearby. Follow me, but I should warn you: the climb up the stairs can be challenging.
I should mention that Wuk Evu isn't only a stickler for etiquette. He is also... Well, you'll find out soon enough.
We are hoping to enlist the man's aid, so it pays not to be rude in any case.
O-ho-ka-liy... Ohokaliy...
