Then how serendipitous it is that I am here to offer my services!
L-Lisette!?
Ah, I believe an introduction is in order. The esteemed personage before you is none other than Lisette de Valentione, my dear sister and predecessor as emissary of Valentione's Day.
Oh Astrid, ever one for propriety. Let not her introduction intimidate you, my dear. Call me Lisette, Lissie─whatever you fancy.
How long has it been, my friend? Too long, surely. You have my personal gratitude for assisting Astrid with the celebration.
Yes, well... Pleased though I am for your offer, should you not be enjoying the festivities with your beloved?
My adorable Astrid, though I may have relinquished the burden of leadership, I have not abandoned my duty as a herald of love.
You said yourself that you lack for capable help. And I am here, yes? As a daughter of House Valentione, I cannot stand by as the flames of ardor dwindle.
Let her help, Astrid. It might be just what she needs before her rendezvous with Hortefense!
Emilie! I told you about that in confidence!
Aha, so that's the way of it. In that case, your aid is most welcome.
Well...with that settled, let us go forth and quicken the seeds of romance yet to sprout throughout Gridania. Pray teach me this pose of yours, Emilie.
Yes ma'am! Might I suggest we split up? Our adventurer friend here can handle Old Gridania, whilst Lissie and I cover New Gridania.
Given the season, you shall no doubt find more than one individual who is flummoxed by their feelings. Strike our pose before these lost souls, and with an outpouring of love grant them the courage to tell what's in their hearts.
There are a few areas in particular I'd like you to visit once you're ready. Just say the word and we can begin!
Emilie's giving it her all!
She'll make a fine emissary of love yet.
Ready? Wonderful! I've marked out a few locations in the area where people tend to mingle.
I'm confident you will find more than a few individuals in need of a little push. Show them your best rendition of the love heart to give them the courage they need!
Pray visit the locations I marked on your map and perform the love heart to inspire those lost in the throes of love!
