You should know better than to rely upon five-year-old data left by the VIIth Legion.
Nor can we expect any form of support from the motherland, given the troubles at court. We have only ourselves to rely upon.
Ever the pessimist, my dear Livia. Promise me you'll never change.
We've wasted enough time here. That meter of yours is too old to give any reading worth a damn.
Not that there was aught worth a damn for it to read...but I take your point. I suppose we must content ourselves with the knowledge that we've achieved our primary objective.
Yet I find that I am troubled by that adventurer's unexpected show of strength. Could such a foe prove a hindrance to our plans?
Perhaps─but that is a consideration for another time.
You have been given a task. That is your priority. I suggest you treat it as such.
Fail to do as my lord commands...
...And I will spare him the trouble of punishing you.
With allies like that...
Beware a woman in love. I shall need to be on my best behavior.
Ah, there you are, Forename. Come, rest awhile─you will have no better opportunity. After witnessing their god's ignominious defeat, the Amalj'aa will be less inclined to risk our wrath─for a time, at least.
Now, where were we? Ah yes, I was in the process of apologizing. I do hope you can forgive me. I arrived too late to be of any use...to you or the abductees.
They may be whole of body, but the same cannot be said of their minds. For once a man is tempered...
Ah, but it ill suits me to dwell on the negatives. Amidst all our misfortunes, there is still reason to rejoice. Ifrit is slain, and by your hand, no less!
That is the deed of no ordinary individual, Forename. Not that I ever thought you were ordinary. On the contrary, I have long suspected that you have the potential to shape the fate of this realm. What can I say? My fine eye for talent remains undimmed.
Minfilia will be proud beyond all reckoning when she hears of your deeds. I trust you shan't object to my bearing the tidings to her. That way I can claim to have contributed something to this mission.
You, meanwhile, have earned yourself a rest. Take some time to relax, and return to the Waking Sands when you are good and ready. We can discuss matters in more detail then. Just don't take too long, will you? The realm's problems won't solve themselves.
Ah, the triumphant hero returns!
Thancred told us the news upon his arrival. He is presently in the solar, giving a full report to Lady Minfilia.
You should join them at once. Lady Minfilia is most eager to see you.
...My late arrival nearly cost Forename her life. I wasn't there when the Amalj'aa took her prisoner...
And I wasn't there when they served her to Ifrit...
Yes, by some miracle, she survived─but that does not excuse the fact that she should never have had to face such dangers alone. I failed her utterly.
Just as I'm failing you all...
What's done is done, Thancred. You can ill blame yourself for every─
Forename! It is so good to see you again!
Impeccable timing, my friend. I had just finished regaling Minfilia with your heroic exploits.
Thancred has told me everything. You have done well to return to us.
The perils you faced were undeniably great, yet a part of me believes that I had no cause to fear. And now we can put paid to our long investigation.
As we suspected, the Amalj'aa undertook both the robbery and the abductions with the aim of summoning their primal, Ifrit.
Nor is this tale limited to Ul'dah. Similar incidents have been rife in both Limsa Lominsa and Gridania of late.
I daresay you've been curious as to how these crimes are linked to the primals. Permit me to explain.
Having manifested in the physical realm, primals must consume aether if they are to maintain their presence here. And the stronger they become, the more aether they require.
Now, aether exists throughout creation. It flows through all life, and permeates the very air that we breathe.
Alas, this alone will not suffice to sustain the likes of Ifrit. Nay, he and his kind require a more concentrated source of aether─crystals.
It is for this reason that incidents involving crystals can often be traced back to a primal.
Which leaves us with the why of the abductions. To understand this, you must first understand how primals are born.
When all is well with the world, primals possess no physical form. Their essence is dispersed across the great river of aether.
However, when the world is plunged into chaos, those who worship the primals cry out to their gods for deliverance from suffering.
These cries serve as a beacon toward which a primal's essence is irresistibly drawn. It is this coming together─or “aetheric coalescence”─which grants the beings physical form.
Once born, a primal gains strength from its followers' worship. The more numerous and fervent they are, the more powerful their god becomes.
But the primals are seldom satisfied with such reverence as their adherents freely give, and in order to gain more power, they do not scruple to create followers. They do this by “tempering” mortals─a process to which you yourself were subjected.
Yet even as Ifrit took your comrades in his thrall, you alone remained unaffected. This is thanks to the power you possess─the Echo.
We know not the why of it, but those blessed with the Echo are immune to primal influence.
It is as though a greater power protects us...
When first you came to us, I told you that the Echo would be instrumental in dealing with the primal threat. I trust you now begin to see why.
The recent incidents all share a common trait: meticulous planning. Such elaborate designs are a new development, and one which fills me with an unshakable sense of foreboding.
While I share your concern, my presiding feeling is one of relief at your safe return.
Ah, the Immortal Flames assured me that they will deal with the aftermath, so you need not concern yourself with that. We may rest easy for a time.
I suggest you take full advantage of the respite, Forename.
You may be sure it won't last long. Once the people learn the identity of the hero who felled Ifrit, I fear you will have nary a moment to yourself!
Whether she intended to or no, Minfilia neglected to tell you something─something I think it would be best you heard from one of us.
It concerns the tempered abductees that were rescued... I am sorry to report that all are to be put to death, the Flames with whom you were imprisoned included. Needless to say, this information must not be made known to the public.
I swear to you that we would not do this if there were any other recourse─but once a man is tempered, he is tempered for life. His very existence lends strength to the primal whom he cannot choose but worship.
And so we Scions continue our fight, that no more innocents need be sacrificed. I hope that you will continue to stand with us, Forename.
But I should be going. I must offer my apologies to the Flame General for the losses his people suffered. Till next time!
Gods forgive me... How many more lives...? Louisoix would never have allowed this to happen.
I have to do better... I have to be stronger...
Until not so very long ago, you were but one of the many adventurers seeking to make their way in Eorzea.
But for your character and courage, you were raised to the esteemed post of envoy. Thereafter, you traveled the realm, aiding those in need without thought of reward, confirming to Yda and Papalymo that the Scions would benefit from your aid. And no sooner had you joined us than you personally bested the primal Ifrit.
You have achieved a great deal in a short time, and won fame in so doing. Alas, fame does not come without a price, as you will soon discover.
We have guests, Forename─or rather...you have guests.
