The law is the law.
Lord Lolorito?
Tell me: are you blind or willfully ignorant? Even now, our streets are choked with the displaced victims of the Calamity and Ala Mhigan refugees.
They live hand-to-mouth, subsisting on aid provided by the Immortal Flames─the cost of which grows ever higher!
The wealth of Ul'dah is not without limits, my friends.
And need I remind you that these refugees are prone to violence and criminal activity? You have all read the reports, I think?
Without homes or employment, it is only a matter of time before men grow desperate and take that which they imagine has been unjustly denied them. Yet, knowing this, you would have us swell their ranks. Mayhap you think the Brass Blades and the Flames are not hard-pressed enough?
Some say the chairman of the East Aldenard Trading Company passes gil thrice daily. This may explain how he came to be the wealthiest man in Ul'dah. Or it may simply be that he's ruthless beyond reckoning.
Surely the sultanate can support the few hundred Domans Lady Yugiri represents? That our resources have been taxed I do not deny, but we are hardly in danger of financial collapse.
I move that an exception be made.
An exception, Your Grace? I am suddenly reminded of a similar debate some years ago, regarding a number of Ala Mhigan refugees, if memory serves.
What were your words that day? Ah, yes: “The law is the law.” And so our visitors remained in Little Ala Mhigo.
Mayhap our wise and benevolent sultana would be so good as to enlighten us as to which other of our laws should not be upheld?
Mind your tongue, Lolorito.
My lord, I share your concern for the welfare of our great nation, but we must endeavor to take a longer view. You know as well as I that people can be a resource still more precious than gil.
Precious or not, they were never yet so reliable. And unlike those who frequent your establishment, I have no desire to gamble with my future.
Ul'dah's greatest asset is, and has ever been, her material wealth. We risk this at our peril.
One need only look to Teledji Adeledji's example for evidence of the danger in allowing sentiment to dictate policy.
How far the vaunted Mirage hath fallen, both in repute and profitability, since he began employing refugees...
How I choose to conduct my affairs is not your concern, my lord!
A proposal has been tabled. Given its urgency, I move we forgo further debate and call a vote.
To accept the Doman refugees or not. Those in favor, I bid you remain. Those opposed, I bid you leave.
Would that it were within my power to welcome you and your people, Lady Yugiri. As you have observed, however, my authority in such matters is regrettably limited.
Without the consent of the Syndicate, I cannot act.
I understand, Your Grace. And I appreciate all that you have done on our behalf.
The nerve of the man... If that bastard had not forsaken the eastern trade route, Little Ala Mhigo would now be thriving.
That you should have traveled so far, under such dire circumstances, only to be refused in this manner is utterly unconscionable. Pray accept my sincerest apologies.
Now that the Empire no longer poses an immediate threat, they see little reason to maintain the pretense of unity.
The Monetarists have grown especially defiant of late─Lord Lolorito most of all.
But this is neither the time nor place for that discussion.
As you observed, Lolorito is not afraid to speak his mind─nor is he like to change it.
Oft have I wondered how a man so skilled at weighing the worth of things should be so incapable of seeing the value in people...
Bah. I will waste no more words on him─not when the Domans are yet in need of aid. Everyone, follow me to the Hall of Flames.
The Syndicate has spoken, and I see no point in moving that the matter be reconsidered. The Monetarists have made their position clear.
Agreed. Ul'dah is not an option.
Nor are Limsa Lominsa or Gridania, I judge, given the state of their internal affairs.
Which leaves our Doman friends confined to a ship. Gods, the thought of them huddled in an airless hold with no hope of better treatment...
Would that I had more time to find an alternative! A place not bound by the concerns of the great nations─
Minfilia. ...That is precisely what I wished to discuss.
I understand the Syndicate's decision, I do. We all wish to preserve that which is ours, especially when we believe it to be under siege.
But I cannot meekly accept this judgment─not while my people suffer. Would it be out of the question for the sultanate to accept us for a limited time? A week, mayhap, or even just a few days...?
Excellent. I shall keep you informed.
Lady Yugiri, I have a proposal, if you would hear it.
Out with it, Master Alphinaud.
The headquarters of my order, the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, stands in a place called Revenant's Toll, an outpost in Mor Dhona.
Like most outposts, it is frequented by mercenaries and other men of action, and lacks the comforts of more well-established settlements. However, the leaders of Revenant's Toll have been doing their utmost to change that.
To that end, they have need of able-bodied individuals willing to work as frontier hands. Hard labor, lest you doubt, with naught save food and shelter by way of reward.
Terms not unlike those which you yourself proposed, Lady Yugiri.
Though I will not hear a word said against our beloved Ul'dah, Revenant's Toll would offer certain advantages─the absence of unhelpful bureaucracy being the most obvious.
If they can accommodate us all, we shall gladly accept!
Master Alphinaud, once again I find myself in your debt.
Pray do not thank me, my lady. The life your people go to is one of hard labor and few comforts, as I told you. And before that, there remains the matter of how they may safely be borne to Revenant's Toll─which will be no small feat, considering the distance and their present condition.
Mayhap the Ul'dahn Adventurers' Guild can be of assistance. Look for me there anon, Forename.
Lady Yugiri, if you and your people would accompany me, we may discuss what aid the Immortal Flames can provide.
We are concerned that the Doman refugees may find the journey to Revenant's Toll too much to bear.
Too long have they been sequestered aboard their ship, with insufficient supplies and scarce room enough to breathe, let alone stretch their limbs. With that in mind, Mistress Momodi has kindly offered to accommodate the Domans until such time as they are ready to set out for Mor Dhona.
Those healthy enough to travel will embark as soon as transportation has been secured, while those too weak to leave at once will be permitted to stay until they regain their strength.
What news?
Transportation remains our greatest obstacle, General. Is there aught the Immortal Flames can do?
I fear that exceeds our mandate.
Were it a smaller number, mayhap it would go unnoticed.
But the Syndicate will not bear the cost of escorting more than two hundred Domans to Mor Dhona.
When government fails to act, the responsibility falls to us private citizens.
I will engage the services of the Seventy-Seven Caravans on the Domans' behalf.
Very well─we should begin contract negotiations at once. Your generosity is most welcome, my lord.
After all that has befallen these good people, it is the least I can do.
Come what may, you shall ever have a friend in Ul'dah, Lady Yugiri.
And you in Revenant's Toll, my lord.
Well, it sounds like we all have work to do! Lady Yugiri, let's put our heads together an' settle the details of our arrangement, shall we?
I would entrust the task of escorting our Doman friends to you─after you have rested your own road-weary legs, of course. What say you?
As we speak, the Domans prepare for departure at Vesper Bay, wherefrom they will be transported by carriage to Ul'dah.
That said, this has all been decided rather suddenly, and it would not surprise me if the refugees required some assistance in coordinating their preparations.
Forename, I would have you return to Vesper Bay and facilitate the process through tasks great and small. In short: whatever must needs be done, do it.
Speak with a man named Hozan when you arrive. As Lady Yugiri tells it, he has been designated the leader of the first group.
