Forename! We've been waiting for you!
Welcome to Sundrop. Without further ado, allow me to introduce you to─
Oho! So you're the famous Forename Surname, eh? I knew it the moment you stepped through the door! You've the look of one who's walked through hell!
Shirabaht, please! You are speaking to the satrap's honored guest and a savior of our people. Can you not show a modicum of respect?
What disrespect is there in paying a fellow warrior a compliment? We're all friends here, or will be soon enough.
More formally, then, for the benefit of my countryman. It is a pleasure to have you with us, O great champion of Eorzea, Scion of the Seventh Dawn, Warrior of Light, and all-round good egg, I'm sure.
I hear you've been to Kugane, where you'll have seen all sorts of foreign embassies and whatnot.
Well, we've got them here in Radz-at-Han, too. Other lands send delegates to oversee trade and diplomatic dealings. Then there are military matters to discuss, which is why all these officers are stationed here in Sundrop.
A fool with too many scars and knees that ache in the winter! The name's Shirabaht, and I attend to business here. As for what sort of business, how can I put it...?
Radz-at-Han welcomes delegates from other lands to oversee trade and diplomatic dealings. Then there are military matters to discuss, which is why all these officers are stationed here in Sundrop.
Bahahaha! A woman after my own heart! I like that!
Don't you worry—I'll keep it short. There's just a thing or two we'd like you to remember. First of all, about the room you're standing in now...
Radz-at-Han welcomes delegates from other lands to oversee trade and diplomatic dealings. Then there are military matters to discuss, which is why all these officers are stationed here in Sundrop.
I imagine you're more than familiar with each of the nations they represent, yes?
We've got representatives from Doma...
Ul'dah and Ala Mhigo...
Limsa Lominsa...
Gridania...
And last─but never let it be said least─Ishgard. They're the eyes, ears, and mouths that bridge the distance between Radz-at-Han and their respective homelands.
We've used this brief respite to share the details of our plight with our overseas counterparts.
And wouldn't you know it, all of their leaders requested a few words from you specifically. You're a woman in high demand, eh?
And so, would you mind regaling us with your own account? Indulge us before you indulge yourself.
I thank you for the report. The conditions under which men are turned to beasts, the aetheric anomalies you have observed...you have given us much to consider.
It is concerning that the first transformation apparently occurred before the skies turned red. 'Tis contrary to what one would expect...
Thankfully, the information you conveyed to Lucia upon your return from the moon has already proved invaluable.
As soon as reports of the calamity here in Thavnair reached the Grand Company of Eorzea and our Far Eastern allies, our leaders knew at once that the Final Days were indeed upon us. They began taking steps to assess the extent of the phenomenon's spread.
Our agents were able to confirm that, for the time being, the skies burn only over the Bounty, including this island and Corvos.
Alas, that is of little comfort...
Aye. All throughout allied lands, there have been reports of people transforming into hideous beasts.
From what little we have learned, these incidents are similar in nature to that involving the merchant Khalzahl.
As was the case here, the victims underwent the change prior to the heavens being set ablaze.
And so, while the burning skies have yet to manifest beyond the Bounty, the transformations do not appear to be subject to any similar restriction. If anyone anywhere overcome by despair can turn, then nowhere is safe!
That's about the size of it. Speaking of which, we ought to give these creatures a name, don't you think?
Here in Radz-at-Han, we've taken to calling the first to change─which tend to be the biggest─“blasphemies.”
As fitting a name as any. To ensure clarity in future communications, we shall urge our comrades to adopt this terminology.
Our leaders have taken measures to deal with the threat, to the best of our abilities.
Aye. Each nation has assembled their own groups of elite soldiers to put down these so-called blasphemies and their spawn as and when they appear.
At the same time, they are doing all in their power to put the people's minds at ease, and prevent panic and fear from spreading.
That said...brave souls with the strength and fortitude to fell these terrible fiends are not easily found.
Just so. And it is for that very reason that we turn to you.
Pray lend us your strength, and help us to slay the blasphemies that plague our homelands!
Now, now...you don't have to give your reply before dinner. I should also mention that each blasphemy seems to possess wildly different characteristics. What works well against one may serve you poorly against another.
So before you go rushing off to save everyone's day, have a word with the delegates. They'll tell you what to expect.
...And with that, I do believe our friend here has a feast to attend. Spare a thought for us while you're tucking into all that fine cuisine, eh?
Thanks for taking the time to stop by. You're free to talk with our delegates more if the mood strikes you, or head off to your banquet if you've had your fill of words for the day.
Ridding the lands of blasphemies is an important task, to be sure, but one that's best done on a full belly and a good night's rest, if you ask me. Do take care of yourself, you hear?
Pray forgive Shirabaht her rudeness. She can be a bit...boisterous at times, but it is simply her nature.
Anyway, my apologies for keeping you from your hard-earned rest. You will be rejoining your companions, yes? Do you know the way to the meyhane?
Glad to hear you're becoming familiar with our fair city. You'll be pleased to hear that all drinks are on the house, so order whatever suits your fancy.
Truly? A remarkable weakness for such a well-traveled adventurer. Anyway, you can either use the Aethernet, or go by foot via the aetheryte plaza.
From there, cross through Balshahn Bazaar and continue down the passage. You'll find yourself right in front of the meyhane.
When you arrive, pray request the drink of your choice. Mehryde says that, tonight, it's on the house.
And with that, I must return to my post. On behalf of all the Radiant Host, I thank you and your friends once more for lending your strength and courage to Radz-at-Han in our time of need.
We shall endeavor to fight the good fight to the end, that we might honor Ahewann's legacy and serve Master Vrtra well. You have my word that your efforts will not be in vain.
Good you could join us. Mihleel over there will be happy to take your order.
How was your meeting with the Radiant? I would love to hear more...
The threat here has been quelled, but our job's only just begun...
I know I must eat to regain my strength, but between you and me, I don't have much of an appetite.
Forgive me for not waiting to make a toast. My throat was utterly parched...
I'm overdue for a good meal.
Welcome! When the satrap asked us to entertain a party of honored guests, I was wondering who it might be... This is a lovely surprise, to say the least.
By the way, I heard all about Khalzahl from your friend G'raha Tia. I understand there was nothing that could be done, but...I was heartened to hear he meant us no harm.
I cannot thank you enough for dispatching the beasts. As the smallest token of our thanks, your food and drink tonight are Mehryde's treat. Speaking of which, what shall I start you off with?
As you wish. Pray join your friends, and I will bring you your drink.
Your drink is on its way. Please, have a seat.
Welcome back. Whatever did the Radiant want with you, pray tell?
Our allies have sent military delegates? That's news to me. Mind sharing the details?
So blasphemies now plague all the realm...
It will only get worse, if what Father said is true. As it did in Amaurot...
If that's our model, then shouldn't we expect the effects to grow more severe as it feeds off its own spread?
As if people transforming into those monstrosities wasn't bad enough, if the flora and fauna─if the land itself turned against us...
...No one would survive.
Here's your order, friend.
May you find comfort in these dark times.
Where do we go from here?
If there's one thing we've learned, fighting blindly and simply reacting to what comes will accomplish nothing.
We must find a solution that addresses the fundamental cause. Before our strength is exhausted. Before this crisis spirals out of control!
Is there something...anything we've overlooked?
If there is an answer, Hydaelyn Herself will have it. 'Twas She who bound Zodiark and forestalled the Final Days.
Alas, we have heard naught from Her since the Tower of Babil. Whether She cannot or will not speak, I can only speculate...
Even the flower She gave us is no more...
In our time, we called it “Elpis”... You would do well to remember the name.
So advised the watcher...but what could be the significance of that name? It is entirely unfamiliar to me.
To me as well. It meant something to the ancients, though. “In our time...”
Most surely. Yet I do not recall a single mention of it in the records of Anyder.
Another dead end, and quite literally. It's not as if there are any ancients living we could go and ask...
Not alive as such...but not quite dead...
...Elidibus.
I sealed him in the white auracite of the Crystal Tower, back on the First.
Contained within that reservoir of aether that maintains it─aether that is returned little by little to the sea...naught may remain of his soul.
However, if part of it lingers...we might be able to speak with him there.
I─no, we can no longer make that journey. But you, my friend, still can.
Yes, we can but act and hope for the best!
Thank you, my friend. That would mean much to me.
I understand your trepidation, but there is merit in making the journey regardless. You could see with your own eyes whether the First, too, faces its Final Days.
If nothing else, should we learn the First is safe, we'll have that much more reason to keep fighting the good fight.
That said...the odds are not in our favor, to say the least.
Which is why we're fortunate to have Urianger up there on the moon, working hard to make all the necessary preparations for our departure, should it come to it.
...And why we have nothing to lose by staying the course till the last instant!
Indeed. To the last, let us all do what we can.
I will consult with Master Matoya and see if she knows of a way to reach Hydaelyn from the aetherial sea.
And I will visit the nations' leaders and attempt to ascertain how far the Final Days have progressed elsewhere.
Keep me abreast of your findings. I can seek out and slay the worst of the immediate threats, if only to slow the spread.
Unease, terror, despair... Try as we might to suppress them, these emotions will return to harry us time and time again.
But when they do, remember this...
Your friends and loved ones are out there, somewhere, sharing in your struggle. You are not alone.
So ends the brief respite before the next revelation.
Yes, so much left for you to see...
Where beginning ends, and end begins...
Ahhh...!
Well, I suppose I do feel better on a full stomach, after all. Burning skies? Blasphemies? Not if I've got anything to say about it!
Nothing like a feast to lift the spirits. I trust you enjoyed yourself as well?
The Final Days─how far has the phenomenon spread, and how does it manifest itself in each land? I must reach out to my friends in each nation and find out all I can.
Beasts and blasphemies may be running amok in nearby lands outside the influence of Radz-at-Han and the alliance. If so, I may need to go hunting.
If the Forum truly has been spurred to action by Hydaelyn's prophecy, then is it not odd that the Antitower was entrusted to Master Matoya, who bears them no love?
No doubt She has a reason for this, and I would know what it is...
Now, then...is there anything we've forgotten to mention? Are your arms and armor in good order?
In that case, it's time we each attended to our tasks. And when you arrive on the First, give my regards to Ryne. Tell her I miss her.
Should Ryne ask questions, don't hide the truth from her. If anything, see if she has any insights to offer.
She's not a child in need of protection, but a comrade we should be willing to rely upon. Even if a part of me may always beg to differ.
Take this, Forename─my spirit vessel.
Empty now, of course, but it should allow you to operate the tower's systems in the Umbilicus.
If even the smallest fragment of Elidibus's essence remains, it should be possible to locate it.
As for access to the Umbilicus, pray seek out Lyna for assistance. Chances are she still stands watch at the Accensor Gate.
Should she or anyone else ask after me, tell them...I am living my life to the fullest. That I am happy, hardships and all.
...Well, we had best be on our respective ways. Gods willing, we will see each other again ere long.
Forename! You are returned!
Have you been well? You and the others...
Full glad am I to hear that. I trust my lord is enjoying himself.
Then things are much the same for you as they were here. My lord is doubtless enjoying himself.
He...he said this to you? These exact words?
Oh, to know that he is happy... It fills my heart with joy.
Thank you, Forename. For taking care of him.
When next you see him, please tell him not to overexert himself. Futile a request though it is.
And tell him that all is well here.
The peace you gifted us continues, and we work hard to build new lives for ourselves.
In the course of this we occasionally bicker, but we've never been more optimistic for the morrow.
If I had to mention one dilemma, it would be the question of our governance. Even as we speak, debate rages on over how we should run the city in the Exarch's absence.
Most are of a mind that the Settlement council should continue to oversee the general running of the Crystarium, while representatives are elected to determine policy and handle diplomacy.
Thus far nothing is set in stone, but however we choose to proceed, we will not replace our lord. No one could.
...Have we recently observed any unusual phenomena?
No, I cannot say there have been. Curious that you should ask me this question, though...
Some days ago, Ryne came and asked the very same. She was rather unsettled─in stark contrast to how cheerful she has been of late.
Ryne has been dedicating herself to the restoration of the Empty, you see.
Though it will take many long years, the goal seems to have given her a newfound sense of purpose and fulfillment.
So when I saw her in a state of such worry, I couldn't help but feel worried in turn. Especially since she wouldn't tell me what troubled her.
I daresay she would be more willing to confide in you. May I ask you to broach the subject with her?
You wish to enter the Umbilicus? Very well. I shall fetch the key at once─and take the opportunity to find Ryne.
Please wait for me in the city, in front of the Cabinet of Curiosity, shall we say. I will be along as soon as I can.
...Do my old eyes deceive? Is that truly Forename?
Hah, it is! Full glad am I to see you hale and whole, my friend!
What a wonderful surprise it is to have you back with us─and at this most opportune time!
In case you haven't heard, we are planning to produce a tome chronicling events from the Flood to the night's return.
For this project, we intend to draw upon records kept by the world's peoples.
Historical and contemporary firsthand accounts will be the centerpiece of the tome, but yours would be the one to crown them all!
I've been asked to contribute a chapter on the soul─a subject that is key to understanding much of your endeavors.
In the course of developing the spirit vessel, I gained valuable insights into travel beyond the rift. Knowledge that will allow me to attest to your existence and deeds!
There is no end to the questions I would ask you, but if you could indulge me just one for now...
In your quest to restore the night, you faced many a formidable foe.
Among them, who offered you the greatest struggle?
Ah yes, Titania, the fallen faerie king. Against such a fiendishly playful opponent, I can well imagine that even the Warrior of Darkness must have struggled.
But you succeeded in setting them free, and your victory proved a pivotal moment in your quest. We will see that it features prominently in the tome!
Ah yes, Lord Vauthry, former leader of Eulmore and the final Lightwarden you cast down. Building his paradise on Mt. Gulg, he proclaimed his existence immaculate and took the name Innocence.
Your reckoning with him was, without a doubt, a defining moment in history, and we will see that it features prominently in the tome!
Ah yes, Hades, he who sought to resurrect his ancient brethren. He was the final obstacle in your quest to restore the night; your battle in the depths of the Tempest the stuff of epics.
Yet compelling as it is, I worry that mere words wouldn't do justice to that fateful confrontation...
Not that we would think to omit it entirely, of course. No, at the very least, we will impress upon readers that it was the climax of your hero's journey.
T-Truly? I never would have guessed... But then if I could, I suppose I wouldn't have had to ask.
'Tis a tremendously eye-opening answer, and we will see that your account of this battle features prominently in the tome!
I know you'd love to talk her ear off, Moren, but we really should be on our way. Those documents from Eulmore won't collect themselves.
Of course, of course. And afterwards, would you care to join me for tea? I was hoping you might clarify a few points in your treatise...
Till next time, then. Do tell the others to look after themselves.
Our overzealous friend, in particular─remind him not to overexert himself. Again and again till his ears fall off, if that's what it takes for him to take it to heart.
