A curious traveler visited our star─a bird which proffered these questions: “What meaning does life hold? For what do you strive?”I could find no satisfactory answers, only bittersweet memories of an age long past.There was a time when we were lesser, and in our nescience sought purpose─struggled to justify life's worth. That was, of course, before we achieved perfection. Now, condemned to our paradise, we understand the fatuity of existence.Like the fledglings we once were, the poor bird could not accept the truth. It asked us again and again─hoping, perhaps, our answer might change.
Ah, finally we are free.
By golden wings shall we know our end!
What its people had gained from ease, they lost to apathy.
Oh, how I have waited for this moment.
Thank you...
They lost their passion for everything? Even life itself?
Please, I beg of you—end my suffering.
Ra-la, I beseech you—free me from this mortal coil!
Ra-la...?
Please, O merciful Ra-la! Free us from the shackles of mortality!
There was a time when we yearned to explore the heavens, found purpose in the hope of unveiling life's mysteries. A dream shattered when we reached enlightenment, and found it empty.There was a time when we believed in our legacy, thought ourselves marking a worthy path our successors might follow. Efforts rendered futile when we discovered the keys to paradise and immortality.As individuals we struggled to know what was right, yet in today's perfect unity there is naught left to question. We are infinity constricted by the finite, but no more─Ra-la shall grant us the mercy of annihilation.
No... How could they?
So they created the kindest, most gentle of beasts.
They may have given up, but it's no reason for us to lose hope.
Its steps were light, and its gift was as painless as it was beautiful.
Bathed in its golden glow, they all slept happily ever after...
They attained paradise, and yet it proved their unmaking... Not at all what I expected.
At least now we have an idea of what drives her.
A great dread nigh beyond description yet hangeth on the air.
A calamity of disease or war I can understand. But paradise?
I shudder to think how many more worlds she watched fall.
However deep the despair, we cannot give up!
I am no stranger to despair. I would not be here with you otherwise.
That you still stand... Your determination defies all reason.
The souls within me writhe and recoil in your presence...
What must I do? What pain must I visit upon you to make you surrender to despair?
No one is unbreakable. What pains one may weather may bring another to tears.
But therein lies our strength, for when we fall, our brothers and sisters are there to raise us up. Again and again. Without end.
I see...
But no matter how much hope exists, ever will there be more despair.
Ever will the living curse the present and lament the future.
So shall we sing until life ceases to be.
Seven hells!
On your guard!
