Begs mercy of netherlings! Does not fight! Does not wish to die!
Was that a Vanu being attacked? But by whom?
Over there!
Imperial troops!?
Ishgardians!? Seize them! They'll know where the archbishop is!
The enemy of my enemy... We've no choice. With me, Forename! Protect the Vanu!
Remember: Lord van Hydrus wants them alive! That's an order!
Lord van Hydrus? Regula van Hydrus!?
What are you doing!? You're a disgrace to the VIth! Subdue these savages!
There's no end to them!
No weapons to fight netherlings! No desire to die!
Netherlings save Lonu Vanu from certain death! Showers netherlings with thanks like summer squall!
Lonu Vanu knows not what wind bears netherlings to cloud sea, but warmly welcomes them! Shows gratitude where gratitude is due!
Lonu Vanu owes much and more to netherlings. As saviors, as heroes, Zundu welcome you!
To village we go! To north! Come, come!
So the Garleans were searching for the archbishop and believed that the Vanu Vanu knew something of his whereabouts.
Methods notwithstanding, they may have had the right of it...
I conclude that we should accept Lonu Vanu's offer of hospitality, and visit his village.
Like breeze guides leaves to rest, come and lay down your burdens, netherlings! Lonu Vanu throws wide arms in greeting! Behold─Ok' Zundu!
A far warmer welcome than the one you received from the Vundu, I think.
Hah! Vundu bluster and blow hither and yon. Sound and fury, like aimless gale.
Eh!? What unseen lightning begets such thunderous report!?
There you are! Did you see it!?
It's that damned flying whale again! The imperials are after it!
Where!?
The White!?
He's wounded!
By the Twelve... Did the beast just eat that island!?
O insatiable White, O devourer of worlds! Why must You torment us!?
Bah! Lonu Vanu wastes no more words on His unfathomable deeds. Come, netherlings! Come and break words with chief of Zundu!
With wisdom deep as nethers and eyes clear as cloudless blue, Sonu Vanu speaks for Zundu. Hearken to his words!
Netherlings deliver Lonu Vanu from claws of steel-shod fiends and prove nobility. He knows not to ignore zephyr winds, and brings before you with all haste.
