Do not sulk so. For thy mighty winds exist not only to buffet and batter.
Nay, they may serve also to thrust forth with vigor. Such is thy glory...and thus it is an occasion to rejoice!
So come─let us revel!
<whale noises>
So long as the wind blows freely, I suppose all is as it should be in creation...
I will render unto them a storm, that they may pierce the firmament and fly free!
Still in one piece. Good.
Sleepingway, report.
All's well! Fantastic, even!
Thanks to the power of those primals, the engines are roaring and we're ripping along!
All values are also within projected ranges. Time to destination is eight carrots. Perhaps seven at a pinch.
All right, let's go over some points of caution.
Our destination, as you know, is Ultima Thule. Lest you wonder, the place is not a star so much as...a patch of emptiness.
That's the extent of what our equipment could determine, anyway.
From what we know of Meteion, she's likely used dynamis to obfuscate her location.
So in conclusion, we'll only know what's there when we get there.
The crew and I will see to it the ship's ready to take off at a moment's notice.
We'll support the search as best we can, but it'll be your paws on the ground...assuming there is any.
But everything will be fine, I'm sure. Hydaelyn believes in you, so you ought to believe in yourselves.
Just don't do anything I wouldn't. Like waiting too long to use those portable teleporters of yours.
Personally, at the slightest sign of trouble, I'd mash the button to bits─and you should as well.
Understood. We promise to be careful.
I suggest you brace yourselves. We're about to arrive, and the vessel will shake a good bit.
Hm? What is this?
Something is interfering with the equipment...
...Greetings.
Greetings... Can you hear me...?
So this is Meteion...
This is Meteion...
Oh? Have you met one of my sisters?
I don't remember meeting you myself... But I do know that you're from Etheirys.
Why have you come? All you had to do was wait. I would've delivered to you your ends.
We didn't ask for that!
I don't understand. All life is destined to end.
Why choose to prolong your suffering?
Effort, ambition, love─they amount to naught. Happiness, should you find it, is inevitably lost. Stolen away by events beyond your control.
There is no logic nor meaning in it. You think there is, convince yourselves, but it's all a cruel accident.
Come now, I speak the truth. A truth you would recognize if you looked up at the night sky.
Unbroken emptiness. Cold, dark, and silent. Your world, like every other, is but a blemish upon its perfect fabric.
Life is an anomaly. It is unnatural and cannot continue. The sooner you accept this, the easier it will be.
Just to be clear, we're not here to argue with you.
We know that life is fleeting. And that in the short time we have it, we're not assured happiness.
Indeed, I've seen far more sorrow in the eyes of many I've met.
I myself have plenty of regrets, and one day they'll die with me. Gone to dust with my “good” deeds and unfulfilled dreams.
But we accept this. That our existence may seem pointless. That sorrow, rage, and despair will always dog our heels.
And we press on regardless. That is why Hydaelyn guided us here.
In Her boundless love for mankind, She has prepared us for this trial, and in Her name we have come for you!
Yes, I sense it... A burning passion, like unto fury...
I know it well. For the same passion once burned in many a star before yours.
Suffocated and extinguished now.
I...I can't...breathe.
You approach the bounds of my Ultimatum, where emotions dictate reality.
Where resignation and acceptance unite to embrace the end.
Where those who yet valiantly cling to life cannot thrive...
By the Fury...
Thancred...?
Meteion is gone as well. Mayhap he awakened first and gave chase.
...Uh, everyone? It appears we're at our destination.
This...this is Ultima Thule.
Not that we knew what to expect...but I wasn't expecting this.
From atmospheric composition to ambient temperatures, all readings are within permissible range. This place is capable of supporting life!
If that's the case, then Thancred may well have gone on ahead. Let's go and have a look.
Meanwhile, I want the rest of you to perform a full inspection of the ship as well as a biological scan.
So it was that the brave wayfarers arrived at last at dream's end.
In following their path walked and history written, I am made keenly aware of one truth...
Though the curtains may fall again and again, so long as others take the stage, ever shall there be more tales to tell.
So let them bring it to a close, I say.
Let the curtains fall upon this—
The final chapter in the tale of the star.
Is this...a dead star?
As I live and breathe...I live and breathe. The environment itself shouldn't kill us.
Well then, let us search for Thancred while exploring the area.
The ship, we leave in your care.
There is a dizzying, disorienting feeling about this place. As if I could lose my footing at any moment... We must be careful.
Didst thou witness what became of Thancred? So quickly was I overcome by Meteion's malevolence that I saw naught of their altercation.
If Meteion should strike again with such overwhelming force, I honestly don't know how we are to oppose her.
We were clearly no match for Meteion, yet we survived unscathed. But how...?
It's so dark. I can barely see anything...
It is as Livingway said. I can breathe well enough, but something about this place feels...wrong.
I can't guarantee it will be of help in these strange surrounds, but I've readied a provisions node in case of emergency.
Of course, if you encounter any real danger here, I expect you to return to the Ragnarok at once.
Don't hesitate to make the most of the provisions node. There's no telling what you might run into out there, or if anything we have to offer might help, but I'd personally rather brave the unknown with a full pack than an empty one.
We're fortunate this place can support life...albeit barely, I suspect, given the torpid, stale quality of the air...
But never mind that. We must find Thancred. Let's begin our search from the prow of the ship. It seems as good a direction as any.
Try not to stray too far, lest we lose sight of one another.
I see no one else in this barren waste, do you? Then why do I feel like we're not alone...like there's another presence with us. Something dark...and mournful...
These remains have long since turned to ash...and yet, they retain their form.
What was this, I wonder...?
There is a structure here in front of me, yes? A tower of some sort, partially melted? Hmm. In a strange twist of fate, it seems our perception of this place is not so different as it would be elsewhere.
The world as I used to see it... It feels as though I am dreaming while awake. This is more than the faded memory Meteion led us to believe.
This...this cannot be real.
Ruins. But of what, I wonder?
Perhaps we can find something to help us understand the nature of this place. A relic, an inscription, anything...
Be careful, Forename. I cannot shake the feeling we're being watched. Gods, you don't think there are ghosts here...do you?
Be careful, Forename. I cannot shake the feeling we're being watched. Gods, you don't think there are ghosts here...do you?
Be careful, Forename. I cannot shake the feeling we're being watched. Gods, you don't think there are ghosts here...do you?
Look here─this part is relatively intact.
The intricate design of the top suggests it is man-made, though its builders were surely not men as we conceive of them.
Having said that, I swear I have seen this pattern before...
I know this pattern. But from where...?
I thought this hill might afford a better view of our surroundings... A poor decision in hindsight.
Besides the light from the ship, all is shrouded in darkness. If Thancred is here, I'd never know it.
From what I can tell, we are near the edge of an island─if you can call it that─surrounded by floating debris.
Have care should you decide to climb higher. Were you to fall, you might well tumble through the great expanse for all eternity.
Were you able to find anything?
As I feared. And still no trace of Thancred.
There's nothing but emptiness as far as the eye can see, which, unfortunately, isn't very far.
Though I can't help but suspect that someone...or something is here.
There are times when I sense it drawing close...and then a chill washes over me, leaving me exhausted.
Leaving me with feelings of death and anguish...
What are you talking about? There's nothing there.
Before we jump to any conclusions, perhaps we should search elsewhere.
Agreed. We've found only more questions when we are in desperate need of answers.
There's a fair stretch of terrain from the ship's port side we've yet to explore.
Let us try searching there, then.
Forename. A word, before we join the others.
You see them too, don't you? The dragons.
As I thought. Their presence is tenuous at best, but there's no mistaking it.
No doubt your bond with Midgardsormr, and mine with Nidhogg, is what allows us to perceive them.
Could these apparitions be related to the dragons that now live on Etheirys?
...Bah. Better to leave such conjecture to the others. In any case, we must be careful. We may soon find dragons they can see as well.
Hmm... Death and anguish. What happened to them, I wonder?
It seems these dragons have yet to succumb completely to the darkness of this place. Meaning the others should see them as well.
Look there! Are those...are those ghosts, do you think?
Surely, mine eyes deceive me. This cannot be possible.
My sight may have been restored after a fashion, but I fear what I see cannot be trusted...
It's as if Meteion herself has etched these images upon my heart. I doubt not that such a feat is within her power, given that she constructed this sanctuary herself.
Dragons... 'Tis true they are not of our world. But to find them in a prison of despair...
Dragons? Here?
What you see is a memory of a world that once was.
A world suffering a slow death, whose denizens cried out for the release of oblivion.
What? Their world...is dead?
It is. Not a single life remains upon that husk floating in the vast emptiness.
These creatures are shadow and shade. Perpetuated only to suffuse dynamis with their unending lamentations.
Our friend Thancred─where is he?
A strange question. He is at your side, is he not?
Oh yes─he is here, and there, and everywhere within this space. He would tell you himself if he had form to form words.
Huh. Such loathing and uncertainty... You don't know why you still exist.
In like manner to the oblivion I send, I tried to drown out your aether with dynamis.
Beginning with this Thancred, who came at me despite being unable to breathe.
Such a simple thing, unmaking men. In the blinking of an eye, he was gone. Didn't even have the chance to be transformed.
Yet somehow, he managed to leave a sliver of himself behind.
What you call...the heart...or perhaps the soul? In his final moment, he...cried out from it. A single word...
“Survive...”
That wish proved stronger than the despair that ruled here. It overpowered it, causing this space to be remade.
Into a place you can perceive, and where life can endure.
That you draw breath is proof that his soul lives on. For how long, however, remains to be seen.
Well then, we should hurry and tend to business!
It's futile. You will never reach the true me.
I told you. Emotions dictate reality in this space. Such changes as you might work will not alter its nature.
You may see, but you cannot touch. Walk, but not advance.
Bah...
Meteion holds too much sway here. How do we contend with a foe who can unmake us on a whim?
I do not know...but Thancred gave his life that we might come this far. We must press on.
Agreed. We cannot turn tail here. Not without something to show for our comrade's sacrifice.
My aim was true. I had her.
How are we to defeat an enemy we can't attack?
I understand now why the Loporrits were surprised to find that this environment could sustain life. There but for Thancred's sacrifice...
It's hard to believe Thancred was able to overcome Meteion's will. Yet here we are... Would that the price for his victory had not been so high.
His will was strong enough to reshape Ultima Thule that we might survive. That I might see again. His sacrifice must not be wasted.
He can't really be gone, can he? Meteion herself said his soul persists, that he is the reason we are still breathing. If so then maybe...maybe...
Soul without body... A form of being with which we are not wholly unfamiliar.
Indeed, for we existed in a similar state when residing in the First.
The circumstances are rather more dire than that, 'tis true, but I choose to believe he is not forever lost to us.
Regardless...in sacrifice he hath afforded us a chance to prevail. Let us not squander it, and ascertain the nature of this realm that we might confront and defeat Meteion.
Estinien. Forename. Would you accompany me in speaking with these dragons? Mayhap they can enlighten us.
I would ask the rest of you to survey these surrounds. If there is a path that may lead us to our quarry, we must find it.
Very well. We can reconvene here when everyone has finished.
Meteion said these dragons are shadow and shade, from a world whose denizens sought oblivion.
As such, they're not like to be amenable to company, let alone conversation. So please, be careful.
Let us split up and gather what knowledge we may.
