Heh heh heh... I've been waiting for you...
Ramble... Ramble... Ramble with me all through the night...
Down... Down... Down into the depths and to your death...
So spirited... But if you will not serve, then you will suffer...
That appears to be the last of them.
Word from the Misery. Repairs are complete, and we may resume our journey without further delay.
I swear, if I never hear another ghost story, it will be too soon...
I remember the sea. The smell of the salt and the crash of the waves as we drew closer to Kugane...
The only port open to outsiders in Hingashi, across the Ruby Sea from Othard. From Doma.
All the colors of the rainbow, all the peoples of the world, all in one place.I wish you could have seen it...
Congratulations. You now stand in Kugane, the western port of Hingashi. Regrettably, the only port in this nation open to foreign trade.
Oh, and I do apologize for the unforeseen difficulties which befell us during our journey. Needless to say, your assistance in overcoming them was much appreciated.
Glad though I am to have arrived, I would remind you all that we are far from home, with limited resources at our disposal...
Duly noted, Brother. I shall take care not to enjoy myself. In any event, Doma is our final destination, and our first order of business should be to secure passage there.
Captain Carvallain, I realize you pledged only to take us as far as Kugane, and I have no desire to change the terms of our agreement. I should, however, be interested to know how you would go about reaching Othard, were you in our position.
At the risk of stating the obvious...you are in a port. Surely there is a kind and generous soul here who will aid you for the right price? You cannot be the first travelers seeking passage to Doma.
...The captain makes a good point. 'Tis like that Yugiri and Gosetsu were forced to come here for the selfsame reasons we were. They must have found a way to Othard─assuming they are not still in the city.
Hmm... Ere we seek passage, mayhap we should first seek our friends.
Leave it to me, Alphinaud! Making friendly inquiries is my specialty. Lest you forget, I got plenty of practice in Ishgard!
Captain Carvallain, could you direct us to the nearest tavern?
Desperate for a drink, are we? You may find one in that large building just beyond the pier.
Whether your journeys have come to an end or are about to begin, the Shiokaze Hostelry is an ideal place to rest, relax, and reflect. Or so they say.
And with that, my dear Scions, I bid you farewell. As soon as we have replenished our supplies, we must away. Ours was ever a fast-moving business.
The “spice trade,” you mean?
But of course. Surely you did not think I traveled halfway around the world and delivered you to your destination solely out of the kindness of my heart?
Perish the thought. Thank you, Captain, and may the Navigator watch over and keep you.
Right, then. To the hostelry?
After you!
By the Twelve... I thought Ishgard remarkable, but this...We are certainly not in Eorzea anymore.
Hee hee hee! A tavern is a tavern, Alphinaud, here or anywhere else!Now, if you'll excuse me, it's time to do what I do best!
