You should not have come here, Ishgardians...
You are fortunate indeed. Behold the true power of our faith!
Twelve forfend!
At last, a foe I might sink my lance into.
<gasp> Th-They fight like demons... 'Tis death to remain!
Fall back, brothers! Retreat to the Cinders!
I see no sign of Lady Iceheart. Would that we could have questioned one of them...
What would you ask that we do not already know? They make for the Cinders, and so must we. Even should an ambush await us, 'tis certain there will be more heretics to question.
“The Cinders,” you say? I confess, the name is unknown to me. Mayhap you would be so good as to enlighten us, Estinien?
...I suspect it is the heretics' way of referring to the Dreaming Dragon─an island of sorts found in the midst of the frozen lake of Ashpool.
Some five hundred years past, 'tis told that the Azure Dragoon of the age fought a dragon of titanic proportions. After a savage struggle, the mighty creature was weakened unto the point of death, and forced into a magicked slumber by an entire chapter of the Holy See's sorcerers.
Ere long, a rain of ash and cinders did begin to fall upon the sleeping serpent's motionless form, covering the creature at length in a shroud of grey. ...Of course, a thick layer of ice has since formed on top of it, but you may be sure I speak true.
A fascinating tale. We should make haste to this ashen isle.
The Dreaming Dragon lies far to the west. Before we approach the frozen beast, however, there is another place I would visit first.
I am told the Convictors have set up camp in Twinpools. Their leader, Jantellot, may have information of use to us.
Ah, but mayhap you are not familiar with that name, either... The Convictors are dragonslayers─after a fashion─but I am willing to wager that they encounter their fair share of heretics. If we are indeed walking into a trap, I would learn all there is to know of our foe.
A sound suggestion. Let us speak with these Convictors, then, and temper our haste with a measure of caution.
