Gods, that voice, that single fleeting verse... I can still hear it... Stay clear of the southern shore, friend. It took every onze of my strength to resist.
Hmmm... This talk of an alluring voice is disturbingly familiar, as if... But that's impossible, they're all dead...aren't they?
...But if they have returned, that would mean─ Oh, beg your pardon, I was just, um...thinking about something.
Which reminds me─I received word that Master Mimidoa would be arriving any moment.
Apparently, he grew frustrated waiting for the “sweet young lass with skin as soft as phoenix down” to return─which I'm assuming is you.
I don't know what sort of arrangement you had, but you should probably go and explain yourself.
What's been keepin' ye, 'nitiate? I ain't gettin' any younger, ye know...
Eh? Some honey-voiced harlot's been callin' out to folk what wander near the Ship Graveyard? An' it's stirred up the dead an' all?
Bloody hells... This takes me back to me days as a cannonboy, sailin' under ol' Mistbeard......But they wouldn't dare, would they? Not after the lesson we learned 'em last time... Bah, they bloody would, though, wouldn't they, brazen ol' biddies...
<sigh> Some folk said as the first purge would be the last, but I knew...knew deep down in me bones as this day would come. An' come it has. Aye...I'd bet me bum ear a siren's behind all this.
Nay, not one o' the Sanguine variety, 'nitiate. I speak o' the other kind─them what's got feathers, an' lure sailors to a watery grave with their sweet, sweet song.
Ohhh, but it don't end there... No, drownin's just the start. See, even in death, a man stays bound to the beast, forced to do her biddin' till his corpse can't do it no more.
'Tis a fate I wouldn't wish on me worst enemy─'cept maybe in drink, an' I'd regret it after. Anyroad, 'tis up to us to stop this hells-born hussy afore she takes another soul!
'Course, we can't send ye marchin' off to war without these. The siren don't have no power o'er a man as can't hear her song. 'Tis lucky fer you I carry a spare pair─an' lucky fer the both of us I'm a superstitious ol' sod, eh?
Well, she ain't comin' to us, so we'd best head o'er to her. To the Ship Graveyard, 'nitiate!
If she passes near the shore, she's sure to spy the campfire an' come lookin'... Just a matter o' waitin', now.
<yawn> Hmph. I'm beginnin' to wonder if some sly bugger ain't spun us a yarn, here...
Quiet! D'ye hear that? 'Tis her!
Look! Out o'er the water! She's come, 'nitiate! She's come!
Quick, lass─shove them plugs in yer ears, an' get ready fer a fight! Soon as she realizes yer deaf to her ditties, she'll call on her thralls, an' we'll be up to our necks in corpses afore ye know it!
