Do you know when everything's set to begin? I wasn't sure how many might come, so I thought it best to come early and find a spot with a great view.
When I heard that Ser Aymeric was planning to make a speech, I knew I couldn't miss it. I mean, the man risked his own neck to rescue those hostages! How often do we get heroes like that in this day and age?
And he's more than a fighter, too─he's a thinker, he is. He's got plans to better our lives. To change things. And he'll do it, by the Fury. Me and my friends and family, we all believe he can do it.
Bloody excitin', isn't it? Not just peace with the dragons, but with all them heretics besides!
Don't misunderstand─we've all got a healthy fear of being bathed in dragon fire. That being said, the heretics did far more to hinder our efforts here in the past, so hearin' that we're close to a reconciliation comes as a great relief!
How much has changed since we fought alongside each other in the Vault. If you had told me then that we would soon be hosting a peace conference, I would have thought you a naive fool.
Yet here we are, preparing to make that fantasy a reality. Hah─and here I am, laboring to make it so.
Lord Artoirel, if I may.
Certainly, First Commander. How may I be of service?
Some of the Convictors are refusing to stand down.
The majority were willing to do so, but a small party have instead pledged to engage any Dravanians bound for Falcon's Nest.
Fury take me, they would defy Ser Aymeric's commands!? If they dare attack Vidofnir─
It will not come to that. But to see that it does not, we must needs hasten to their encampment.
They should be far more reluctant to oppose us were a lord of House Fortemps present.
I understand completely. Let us depart at once.
But ere we do, I must ask: would you look after Emmanellain while I am away?
As you know, he has ever been an impulsive, changeable child, but recently he seems to have been suffering from a bout of melancholy.
I thought to lift his spirits by having him assist with guard duty─a simple but honorable charge, unlikely to expose him to danger given the presence of so many other knights. Alas, he has taken no interest, and I fear he may abandon his post in my absence.
All I ask is that you keep an eye on him until I return...exhausting though that may be.
Thank you, my friend. I promise we will not be long.
I'm rather busy at the moment, old girl. Guarding this tavern, as it were.
Oh, I see now. Artoirel thought I might be derelict in my duties, eh? The nerve of my brother to question my dedication!
...But since you are here, mayhap I can put you to proper use. The wasteland beyond the walls must be kept safe for travelers, yet I have been forbidden from leaving Falcon's Nest.
It wouldn't do for our esteemed guests to be devoured by wolves, oh no. Yet that is precisely what will happen if we do not cull the roaming packs!
Your map, if I may. Right...there, those are the points our scouts marked for patrol. I'll leave you to it, old girl. Come, Honoroit─I must return to my rounds!
Oh dear...do be careful, my lady.
Forename Surname, Wolves' Bane! It pleases me to inform you that I have completed my rounds, and that all is well in Falcon's Nest.
Oh, and there was a grizzled fellow looking for you. You know, the one who made that arsonist confess. Clever, that.
Thancred, was it? He was asking after you.
Anyway, once I noticed the garish weapons he was sporting, I deemed it a waste to leave him be. I dispatched him to an area I neglected to mark on your map...yes, this one. If you hurry, he might still be there.
Fancy meeting you here, Forename.
'Twas fortunate I came when I did. These two would not have fared well against the wolves on their own.
The young lord wasted no time taking advantage of you, did he? And me, I suppose.
Let us return to Falcon's Nest, then, and see what other thrilling tasks he may have for us.
And there they are, a pair of gallant heroes if I ever saw them. Comrades-in-arms, reunited at last.
By your selfless sacrifice have you guaranteed the safety of our many guests. On behalf of Ishgard, I thank you both.
And with that, there is naught left to do but to enjoy our well-earned respite.
Oh, and this should of course go without saying, but let's keep those last few favors between us, yes? Artoirel wouldn't understand.
Right, then─the first floor of those barracks has been converted into a tavern for the duration of the conference. Why don't you go and have something to eat?
For once, a suggestion with which I agree. Go on ahead, Forename. I will join you anon.
