Hmm? What's all this, then? You got something what needs making?
Indeed I do, good sir. I wish to commission the production of a device that can generate a tremendously loud sound. It must be small and light enough to be carried by a single individual as well.
Ain't that one of the stranger requests I've heard... Well, if it's just noise you want, then I'd wager we could make do with a special blend of firesand.
Aye, I think I've got just the recipe for your needs. I'll need some choice ingredients, mind─and you'll need to go and fetch them for me.
F-Fetch... Ahem. What precisely is it that you require?
Well, there's this one particular beastie native to Kholusia what's got a singular diet and leaves these massive dung piles─the fresher the better, if it please. A few varieties of grasses native to Rak'tika... Oh, and some iron ore from Amh Araeng. I can give you a list if you like.
To wit, I will need to travel to the far corners of Norvrandt and back...? Oh dear, this is rather more involved than I...
No, no─no more excuses! I will do whatever must needs be done to see this through to the end!
My friend, I will not impose these tasks upon you. I insist that you remain here while I go and fetch the required materials.
Huh, he gonna be all right getting all that stuff by himself? I mean, if it were you, I'd not think twice about it...
It...it was...a series of surprisingly harrowing experiences...but in the end I managed to obtain the materials necessary for the construction of my secret weapon.
That gentleman was rather accommodating. Despite being somewhat put out that I had not any gil to pay him for his labor, he was nevertheless willing to teach me how to craft the arrows myself. He said he found my industriousness...endearing.
I must confess, despite being utterly exhausted by all this busywork, it has been somewhat refreshing.
And now that my noisemaker arrows are ready, I cannot wait to put them to the proof! If all goes to plan, the explosions should be loud enough to incapacitate Andreia for a time.
Let us put an end to her tale, my friend, and in so doing write the opening of ours─that of Reeq and Forename, bounty hunters extraordinaire! Come─Rak'tika and glory await!
If I may make one small request before we begin: please, for the love of the gods, please try not to succumb to any visions of people's pasts! This really could not be a worse time...
Well? Are you still with me in the here and now?
Excellent! Then we can attend to the task at hand without worry. Let us lay to rest our fellow hunters and grant Renda-Rae the peace a hero deserves!
I'll distract Andreia with a noisemaker arrow.Seize the opening to strike!
Here goes nothing...
Here it comes!
