Crush...intruders... Raaaaaargh!
Truly a fascinating specimen of Ronkan ingenuity.
Though thankfully nowhere near the fabled might of Lozatl.
Though thankfully nowhere near the fabled might of Lozatl.
What's that?
An earthquake? Nay. Something stirreth deep within...
An earthquake? Nay. Something stirreth deep within...
There it is again!
Stay on your guard. We near the tremors' source.
On thy guard. Carelessness shall find no clemency here.
On thy guard. Carelessness shall find no clemency here.
On thy guard. Carelessness shall find no clemency here.
By the gods! It's hideous!
That such a beast could survive down here all this time...
I fear my ears will be ringing for quite some time.
My ears won't stop ringing...
Would that we could stop and rest, but we must press on.
At last. Rak'tika Falls...
And below awaiteth the Lightwarden.
Sin eaters. We're getting close.
The sooner we get this over with, the better.
The Lightwarden of Rak'tika...
'Tis more terrible than the Viis described.
So the Warden of the wood falls.
And thus doth the night return.
That Lightwarden... That was terrifying.
Good. Keep that memory with you.
The Lightwarden is dead. The Blessed's prayers have been answered...
Aye, that they have.
Her condition yet troubleth thee?
It does. Though she shows no immediate signs of corruption, the danger remains. She must be told.
...Would you describe it to me, Urianger? Paint for me a picture with your words.
A sea of shimmering stars. Diamonds strewn across a raven gown, boundless and beautiful.
'Tis an exquisite sight not unlike that of the Source. Calm and gentle...and forgiving...
I can see it...
For however deep the void, or wide the expanse, there is no shore so distant as to be beyond the reach of light. ...Ominous though that may sound, given our present travails.
Well fought. Let us return home.
The murals. If I am not mistaken, they predate the empire.
How can you tell?
A peculiarity of the paint. Most are made from mineral-based pigments, but whatever was used here is older than anything I have ever seen.
According to Almet, this sanctuary was built to preserve the wisdom of the ancients. What events do these murals commemorate, I wonder?
Must you always linger after defeating your enemies? Navigating these halls on foot is exhausting.
Come to lead us to safety, have you?
Hmph! I was bored. But how is the hero of the hour?
Hmm. Fighting fit, I see. Keep up the good work.
You're plotting something.
Every hour of every day. But never you mind about that. As I have told you a thousand times before: I like to watch. Nothing more.
Well! I would quit this place, and I suggest you do the same. There is yet work to be done.
Ah...there is a sight to bring a tear to the eye.
You recognize these scenes?
That I do. Indeed, there was a time when anyone and everyone would.
Until one calamitous day when the world was divided across ten and three reflections, sundering the land and all who dwelled upon it.
And the worst part? No one could remember it. Not really. Just fragments and fleeting memories of an achingly familiar world...
A vision shared of a paradise lost, preserved only in song and scripture and paint...
Once upon a time. Yet here we find ourselves again. To look, learn, and remember...
Then share with us the stories you know so well. We are listening.
Before the great sundering, there was one world. A world that knew naught but peace and prosperity.
Until it was faced with a crisis. Unprecedented, terrifying. Civilization found itself perched upon a precipice, staring into oblivion.
But through prayer and sacrifice, the will of the star was made manifest.
Zodiark was His name, and by His grace was the calamity averted.
Zodiark!?
A savior mighty and magnificent, deserving of reverence and gratitude...one would have thought. Yet some thought otherwise.
From the fears of these naysayers would rise Hydaelyn─She who was to serve as His shackles. To bind Him and hold Him in check.
And so they fought, and they fought, and they fought. And in the end...Hydaelyn was victorious.
With all Her strength She smote Him─dealing a blow so devastating that it split the very fabric of reality. And thus was Zodiark banished and His being divided.
That concludes today's lesson on long-forgotten history. Though I imagine your Mother would offer a rather contradictory account. As is Her wont.
I'm sorry─I can only assume I misheard, but it sounded an awful lot like you were implying both Zodiark and Hydaelyn are not gods, but─
What? Not gods of the First? Is that what you thought these paintings depicted? Or...? Oh! Ohhh...
They are gods after a fashion, yes, but no different from the kind with which you are so intimately acquainted. Formed of faith and prayer, of conviction and devotion...
The eldest and most powerful...of primals.
You have spun quite a tale.
Yet you have not explained the role of the Ascians in all of this. How is it you are privy to ancient secrets lost to time?
Finally, finally, you ask the right question! And shrewd questions warrant honest answers...
We Ascians know because it is our history. Our story.
It was we who summoned Zodiark─we natives of that sundered paradise.
Now do you see why we yearn for the Great Rejoining?
For our world...for our people...for all creation to be made whole again.
Wouldn't you wish for the same?
That was an enlightening experience. Though not in the way I had hoped.
Do you suppose there is any truth in Emet-Selch's claims?
Though recent events plainly warrant further discussion, I think it best that we wait until Alphinaud and the others are present.
...Emet-Selch included. How convenient that he should choose this moment to keep to the shadows.
Well...no matter. For the present, we should return to Fanow and make certain of the Eulmorans' withdrawal.
After that, Slitherbough. The Blessed are no doubt elated by what has become of the sky.
You are returned. And unharmed, I see.
Indeed. I am pleased to report that the Lightwarden is no more, thanks in large part to you.
That the death of a single sin eater should make such a difference...
As our numbers waned, so too did our hope that the ruins we have devoted our lives to guarding would ever find purpose.
Yet here you are, the allies for whom we have waited these many centuries. And with your arrival came the chance to pass on our legacy─the ancient wisdom of the empire.
That alone would have been reward enough... Never did we imagine it would serve to banish the Light that pervaded these woods.
On behalf of the Viis, our forebears, and the late emperor of Ronka, you have our deepest thanks.
It is we who should be thanking you. Our journey through the Qitana Ravel proved...most enlightening.
To be privy to such knowledge is an honor. One for which we never hoped...
Please, you need not be so humble!
We but do our duty as decreed by the late emperor. Would that he were still with us to express his gratitude in person.
But Sister, does this not mean our duty is fulfilled?
To our allies, perhaps, but the ruins cannot be left unguarded.
So long as we live here in these woods, the secrets of Ronka must not fall into the wrong hands.
Is Runar still here?
No, we escorted him back to Slitherbough shortly after you set out.
If you would return to the Night's Blessed, we will not keep you any longer. I suspect they would be glad of your company.
Thank you, Almet. I look forward to a day when we might share a more leisurely visit to the ruins of Ronka.
We will await your return, then.
Ah, you are returned! And none the worse for wear, I see.
You needn't worry about us. What became of the Eulmoran soldiers, more importantly?
They turned tail and fled at the sight of the night sky.
The Children of the Everlasting Dark have also retreated back to Woven Oath.
Try as they might, they could not deny the truth of their own eyes...
The sunless sea of heaven, full of love and grace, where none need know pain or suffering.
In that moment, when the sky's light began to wane, I knew our prayers had been answered.
...That we were doomed to face oblivion at life's end no longer.
When first we met, I harbored certain suspicions about you. Now I see that I was right.
You are the Bringers of Shadow. The Warriors of Darkness. The saviors for whom we have prayed for so long.
I suppose you're not entirely wrong...
But we are not worthy of your reverence, nor have we any desire to be worshipped. If you would pray, pray for your children, that they may one day know a better world.
...I will do as you say. But please, let us at least hold a feast to celebrate your victory. You deserve that much.
I am sorry, Runar, but there is still much to be done, and scant time in which to do it.
We must go─all of us. For we share the same path and the same fate.
So be it. I ask only that you hold us in your hearts, as we will hold you in ours, now and ever after. By the boundless dark, this I swear.
Though it pains me to leave, it is time I returned with you and the others to the Crystarium.
But before we go, might I speak with you in private? I will await you in my chambers.
Thank you for coming. I thought to keep my suspicions to myself, but after witnessing your victory at Rak'tika Falls, I fear they prove true, and so I must share them with you.
From the first when we met at Fort Gohn, your aether has appeared...tainted. Suffused with an overabundance of light not unlike the sin eaters.
When you defeated the Lightwarden, I fear the light which poured forth from it was not negated by Hydaelyn's blessing. Rather, it was absorbed into your being.
Urianger also suspects as much, though he is unwilling to share his thoughts on the matter.
One thing is certain: with every Warden you defeat, the danger to you grows greater. Greater perhaps than we can imagine. If you begin to feel anything strange─anything at all─pray inform me at once.
You should hurry, before the others begin to worry. Once I have sorted my things here I will join you.
We took one last patrol of the perimeter. All things considered, Slitherbough remains relatively unscathed.
Thanks to the antidote, all those who were poisoned will make a full recovery.
And with the night sky returned, their prayers have at last been answered.
Sorry to keep you all waiting. Shall we be off, then?
Art thou certain this is best?
...I'll not deny there is a part of me that wishes I could stay.
For two years I have lived with the Blessed, learned their culture, even going so far as to adopt Master Matoya's name as my own. I but pray I did honor to it.
Now is not the time for doubt or hesitation. Come, we must return to the Crystarium.
All things considered, it is hardly surprising that Alphinaud and Alisaie have yet to arrive, but where is the Exarch?
My friends! 'Tis good to see you all again.
Alphinaud! It has been too long.
I assume your presence here means you've brought word of the Warden hiding in Rak'tika?
Found and slain, you say? I should have known.
Eulmore has but recently dispatched soldiers to all corners of Norvrandt to defend them. I am glad to see their efforts were wasted on the Greatwood.
Speaking of Eulmore, what came of your meeting with Vauthry?
Yes, about that. It proved to be...
...Urgh.
Exarch, you mustn't push yourself. Your time away from the tower has clearly taken its toll.
No doubt you all are tired as well, having traveled so far. Why don't we all take a much-needed rest before we discuss our findings?
I thought to propose the very same. After your clash with the Warden, you deserve a chance to recuperate.
It's settled, then. We reconvene after everyone has had time to settle in.
Welcome back, miss. Returned from a lengthy excursion, I take it.
Well, your room has been made ready, if you'd care to retire?
Very good. I pray you sound sleep and pleasant dreams.
So there's a light sealed inside you, is there? You wouldn't know it from the outside. You look the same as you ever did to me.
True enough. Packing up and going home isn't really an option, is it. If you don't face the music here, it'll only come and find you there.
Damned if I know. It's not as if I can lift a finger to help myself, much less you.
Have faith in your friends. Look out for them, and hope that they look out for you. What more can you do?
Ah, yes. If they're not asking you to fight they're telling you to rest. Which isn't to say they're wrong. You'll need your strength for what's to come.
...Think he was telling the truth? Emet, I mean. All that rot about Hydaelyn being no different from any other primal...
If so, what would that make Her “blessing”? Are we just slaves to Her will?
Ahh─let's pay him no mind. Lies are the Ascians' stock-in-trade.
Villains, heroes─all a matter of perspective, they'd have you believe. One man's fond memory another's waking nightmare...
Me, I'm no saint or savior─just another sinner. And I know damn well I'm in no position to judge...
When I saw the people of Slitherbough look up at the sky and celebrate the return of the dark...felt good.
It was moments like that that I cherished─much more than the thrill of adventure. The quiet after the storm.
I always took comfort in that.
I always took comfort in that.
What did the scouts have to report?
Several skirmishes, but nothing of consequence. The fighting seems to have taken its toll on both sides.
A stalemate, then. The Alliance has done well to hold the line for so long.
...But then they did have Ishgardian reinforcements.
Nevertheless, neither side has any appetite for a prolonged engagement.
'Tis but the calm before the storm. And should the Empire choose to bring their full might to bear...
To say nothing of Black Rose.
All the more reason to hasten our search. How close are your people to identifying our next target?
Close enough. Though I have received some troubling intelligence.
One of our generals posted to the Ala Mhigan front recently disappeared without trace from the battlefield at the Ghimlyt Dark.
Odd. Dead seems unlikely, fled less so. I wonder where he'll turn up...
Were I a betting man, I would say here─in the capital.
Not that any deserter who valued his life would contemplate returning. But a corpse might, given the right encouragement.
In the manner of His Royal Remains, you mean?
Elidibus plainly has no need of a new host, so the question becomes, who?
It may be that another player has joined the game.
Something to consider, at any rate. But come, there is work to be done.
These bloodless games make for poor sport.
Mayhap if Father... Nay. I am a stranger to him in this body.
Besides, there is but one hand that can make me whole again. My enemy...my friend...
I know not what entertainment occupies you, but if you will not clear the way for me, then I shall seize the reins of fate once more.
Ah, I suspected that you might be awake. I could scarce imagine you sleeping through such a commotion.
An entire host of sin eaters appears to be advancing upon the Crystarium. Emergency measures are being taken as we speak.
Rest assured, however, that we are safe so long as we remain under the Crystal Tower's aegis. You may return to your quarters, if you wish.
Yes, I thought you might feel that way. And I cannot say that your assistance would be anything less than welcome.
I must remain here to disseminate information to the other residents, but you are under no such obligation─and thus free to aid any of the townsfolk who may be in distress.
The Exedra tends to become a point of congregation in times of need, crowded with those seeking solace in companionship. You would have my personal gratitude if you would offer succor to those there.
The Exedra tends to become a point of congregation in times of need, crowded with those seeking solace in companionship. You would have my personal gratitude if you would offer succor to those there.
Forename!
I've only just returned from Amh Araeng, yet I find the Crystarium moments from being beset by sin eaters!?
Where are they coming from? This shouldn't be possible─we restored the darkness!
Well, this is a fortunate coincidence.
Brother! Tell me you have some idea why this is happening.
I may─but for the moment we'll need to postpone such discussions in favor of action.
The Crystal Exarch is preparing to deploy a barrier around the Crystarium as we speak. Ensuring that he is able to do so should be our first concern.
There are a number of instruments placed about the Crystarium that function as anchors for the barrier. I'm on my way to activate them now.
...In which case, three pairs of hands would be better than one? Very well. I'll take the ones to the south.
I shall deal with the northern apparatus, then. Will you handle the western two? They're ensconced on platforms extending from the upper level of the aetheryte plaza.
I shall deal with the northern apparatus, then. Will you handle the western two? They're ensconced on platforms extending from the upper level of the aetheryte plaza.
