Greetings, adventurer. I am told you wish to join our ranks.
I am Luciane, the master of the Archers' Guild, and I bid you welcome. Our doors are open to all who have the will to learn.
Allow me to explain the basics of our art, and offer you a foretaste of that which we teach the members of our guild.
The bow's greatest advantage is its range. Unlike those arms used in other disciplines of war, it allows one to strike at the enemy from afar.
Though the bow may not boast the destructive force of a sword or spear, its myriad strategic applications more than compensate for this shortcoming. An experienced archer can immobilize an enemy by striking a leg, or sap its strength with a poisoned arrow.
Rise to become a virtuoso of archery, and a veritable deluge of death will be yours to rain down upon your foes.
By fighting from a distance, we can better assess the battlefield and thereby determine the most advantageous course of action.
This is of paramount import, as our role in battle is to exploit the enemy's weakness. With the requisite placement and timing, but a single arrow may serve to turn the tide.
To this end, the guild seeks to instill a discerning eye within its members, that they might learn to strike at vulnerabilities, swiftly and surely.
Now, any half-wit can bend the bow, but it is no simple undertaking to become a skilled archer. You must be prepared for a long and arduous journey.
Are you resolved to complete that journey?
That is regrettable. Yet it is good to see a woman who knows her own mind.
You would make a fine archer─had you but the will. Should you experience a change of heart, seek me here once more.
Very well. Now, before proceeding any further, I must needs gauge your innate aptitude for archery. To this end, I hereby assign you the following trial...
Slay the squirrels, ladybugs, and funguars that roam just beyond the city gates─three of each should suffice.
In so doing, you will prove your fitness to join the Archers' Guild.
Report back to me when the task is accomplished. I doubt that it will trouble you unduly.
Welcome back, Forename. It would seem you have successfully completed the trial.
You have proven yourself worthy of a place within these halls. It is with pleasure that I name you an archer of the guild.
As fellows of the path, let us together strive for greater mastery of our art.
Now, though you may be a member of the Archers' Guild, know that your seniors will not coddle you with personal attention. It is up to you to seek out the experiences you need to grow as an archer.
To this end, I present you with this hunting log. Written within are the names of such creatures as would provide a fitting challenge. Should you find yourself lacking direction, you would do well to refer to the log.
By way of a first step, I encourage you to practice proper technique. Loose arrow after arrow, paying close attention to form, until the movement becomes second nature.
When drawing your bowstring has become as natural to you as drawing breath, and the world seems clearer when viewed down the shaft of an arrow, return to me. Go well, my young apprentice.
Good day to you, Forename. I felt that it was about time you returned. Have you grown more accustomed to the bow?
Before we go any further, I wish to ensure that you have grasped the fundamental essence of archery. Tell me, Forename, do you truly understand what it means to see clearly?
To see clearly is not merely to look. It is to observe with intent. Fail to do this, and no amount of talent with a bow will avail you.
An archer must remain vigilant for any trace of his target, overlooking not the smallest detail lest it prove crucial to the realization of his purpose. He must, in short, see clearly. The coming task will test your powers of observation.
A number of targets have been hidden throughout the city. I would have you seek out and destroy them.
Each will fall easily to your Heavy Shot technique. When you have completed the task, return to me and we will continue.
Ah, you have returned. I trust you have begun to comprehend the crucial importance of seeing clearly.
The next trial will test your powers of observation in battle. Travel to the North Shroud, and there put down eight microchus and eight opo-opos.
In contrast to the inanimate and wholly unthreatening targets of the previous trial, these creatures may be relied upon to move around and fight back.
Nor are those the only differences. Being comparatively numerous, microchus and opo-opos are anything but difficult to find. And yet you may be assured that this task will test your powers of observation...albeit in a different manner.
This time, you will need to evaluate the abilities of your opponent. In so doing, you will learn, amongst other things, that microchus produce a poison that can quickly sap one's strength, while opo-opos─like archers─possess the advantage of range.
Knowing their strengths, how will you go about mitigating them? If you commence your attack before identifying an effective strategy, you will soon be made to regret your folly.
But if you take the time to observe your targets from afar, you will surely glean the knowledge necessary to defeat them.
I look forward to hearing of your success, Forename.
Welcome back, young Forename. Tell me, were you able to put your techniques to good use?
When faced with an enemy who can attack from a distance, simply raining arrows upon it is wasteful and dangerous both. The battle would be naught more than a contest of strength.
By employing the appropriate technique, however, one may bring down one's foe with greater ease and fewer arrows. For instance, you may choose to prime your weapon well and strike hard, or employ toxins to sap their strength over time.
On the assumption that this fact dawned upon you prior to the fall of your sixteenth target, I congratulate you on passing the trial.
Leih. Silvairre. What is your honest evaluation?
