Graaaaaagh!
As long as I draw breath, I won't give in!
Aaah!
And thus another plan went up in smoke! I am beginning to see why Lord Zenos thinks so highly of you...
Not that this changes anything, you understand. You have merely earned yourself a stay of execution.
Glory be...to...Garlemald...
How fare the tempered?
We've treated as many as we can. But some were beyond help...
Do not hang your heads so, brave Scions.
Though not all of our captured brethren could be saved, we are grateful for those whose minds have been restored.
You could do no more. And that is enough. So please, hold your heads high.
I should've been quicker... But I'll do better next time.
Thank you for your kind words. They mean a lot.
A victory at great cost...but a victory nonetheless.
We must stay strong and press on. Isn't that right?
That we will!
Agreed.
To the very end.
It really must count for something.
I trust you all enjoyed a comfortable flight aboard the pride of the Ishgardian fleet? Lest you worry, the Bonanza has been towed to a nearby location to be retrieved at your convenience.
You have thought of everything, Lord Aymeric. And may I say how much I appreciated the hospitality you afforded us on the way home.
Think nothing of it. Our destination lay in the same direction─and it afforded me the perfect opportunity to learn how my errant friend has been since last he took his leave.
It would seem you have finally found a place to settle down.
Hmph. I merely grew weary of wandering the Far East.
Returning to more serious matters─while the Telophoroi have been driven from Carteneau, 'tis like that the bulk of their forces yet remain.
On the evidence of the Grand Company of Eorzea's first joint military operation, however, I am confident that we have the potential to meet such threats head-on─even without the aid of you and yours.
As such, while our forces keep the Telophoroi at bay, I would ask that you apply your talents to the task of neutralizing the towers.
A sensible division of labor. While the towers remain, so too will the threat of the lunar primals.
And given our expertise in the field of aetherology, we are better qualified to find the solution.
That we are. Especially should it happen to lie beyond the Alliance's dominion.
There is a time and a place for formal investigations, of course, but certain secrets are wont to hide where only enterprising individuals may venture.
I could not agree more. There are none better suited to this task, nor any upon whom I would rather rely.
On behalf of the Alliance, I thank you. We look forward to receiving any information you are able to uncover.
And with that, I must take my leave. Should you have need of assistance, pray do not hesitate to ask. Fare you well, my friends.
I confess, I had hoped to be able to study the towers more closely, vital as they plainly are to the Telophoroi's plans. If we can discern their ultimate function, we will be one step closer to understanding our enemy's grand scheme.
Should we succeed in neutralizing them, of course, it is all but certain that the Telophoroi will mount an all-out invasion.
And then it will begin. The one who awaits at the heart of the chaos will come for us. For you.
...Yet in the end, our true nemesis may be the calamity to end all calamities. The Final Days themselves.
Yes, all right, Alphinaud. We need a plan, not portents. As Thancred so eloquently pointed out, we are in a position to seek information from all manner of places, not least...
...Sharlayan.
According to Krile, the Forum have been more secretive than ever of late. While this may be related to the appearance of the Telophoroi, that remains a matter of speculation.
But one thing is clear: the Forum is determined to keep us from discovering the truth. Master Fourchenault's performance at the Lotus Stand was enough to convince me of that.
The matter beareth further investigation, I do heartily concur.
Nor can I think of a more promising place to look for the answers we seek on the matter of the towers. Sharlayan hath ever been the wellspring of aetherological knowledge.
I care not where we go. Here or there, my lance will be ready.
And what of you, Forename? Might you be persuaded to join us?
Hear, hear! It is time we laid bare the Telophoroi's dark designs!
Only after I do!
If he and his friends in the Forum think we'll leave them alone if they ignore us, they're in for a shock!
To be frank, I myself would sooner plump for a tropical paradise. But Krile does need our help, and who knows where the trail might lead us?
It appears we are in agreement. We have but to wait for Krile to secure the necessary permissions. In the meantime, there is a matter I would investigate.
Does it involve tall structures?
By strange coincidence, it does. At present, I have only a creeping suspicion, but with your help, I will soon find out whether my fears are warranted.
By strange coincidence, it does. At present, I have only a creeping suspicion, but with your help, I will soon find out whether my fears are warranted.
Those Eorzeans certainly are a stubborn bunch, though I suppose you knew that already.
My plan to redirect the aether from Carteneau came to a rather less-than-satisfactory conclusion. It was, in many respects, an abject failure.
Which does of course raise the question of where we are going to procure the requisite amount. The obvious solution would be to draw on resources a little closer to home, though that would require our dreamer to dream a trifle more deeply...
So be it. The dreamer will not complain.
Then let us begin the preparations at once. With the “gateway of the gods” complete, all that remains is to gather the necessary aether, and our prize shall be within reach!
The time has come to fulfill your heart's desire! My desire!
To relieve those wretched creatures of their meaningless existence!
While I await you, I shall drink a sea of souls and gorge myself upon the darkened moon.
Then you shall come to me, all roiling rage and rancor...
And the stars shall bear witness to our final contest.
As I thought... The aetherial currents have been disturbed here, too.
It was the same in Thanalan. Make that every location we surveyed.
And the strength of each current has diminished dramatically. Far more than could be attributed to a natural occurrence.
What tidings bringest thou from Dravania?
We took a number of readings, and noticed that the closer we were to the tower, the lower the aetheric density became. In short...
The towers are drawing upon the land's aether. Which would explain how they were able to carry out the summonings.
Our allies must be informed of this. We should return to the Rising Stones and have Tataru relay our findings to them.
Hear me... Hear me...
Darkness comes...and with it...the end...
The fate...of the star...is in your hands...
Everything all right back there?
Everything all right back there?
Everything all right back there?
I've a feeling the journey to Sharlayan is going to be quite the test of your nerves, in more ways than one. You'll miss this place while you're away, I just know it! But for now, the best thing you can do is get plenty of rest while we wait to hear from Krile.
Not only do the members of the Forum intend to adhere to their long-standing policy of nonintervention, they made a point of sending Master Fourchenault here to explicitly state that fact. Rather than simply refusing to involve themselves in our affairs, it would appear they are actively trying to prevent us from meddling in theirs.
That does, of course, make Krile's mission of securing our entry into Sharlayan nigh on impossible, but I am confident that she will find a way regardless.
After the end of the Dragonsong War, I spent many a moon roaming. Kugane, Radz-at-Han...even Garlemald. But never Sharlayan.
In all honesty, a nation populated entirely by bookish types like Alphinaud is not a place that appeals to me...
Whatever it is my father and the Forum are hiding, I'm determined to get to the bottom of it.
Those who are brought within close proximity of the towers are tempered into serving Garlemald, then forced to summon lunar primals with aether drawn from the land.
But even having understood this, we are yet to uncover what the Telophoroi wish to achieve by all this. Are the towers purely for strategic advantage or do they serve some other purpose?
Much and more have we discovered of the Telophoroi's machinations since Thancred and I did return from Garlemald. Verily, their troops doth appear to have been tempered in much the same manner as those engaged in the construction of the towering edifice in the capital.
When Arenvald tried to free the Amalj'aa held in the tower, it triggered some sort of alarum and the captives were killed instantly. As such, we have no choice but to leave them in the clutches of the Telophoroi until a means of rescuing them has been found.
In the meantime, the summonings of lunar primals will continue. Just as we must rely on the Grand Company of Eorzea to put down such entities and prevent any further abductions, so too do they rely on us to come through with our investigation.
Whatever it is my father and the Forum are hiding, I'm determined to get to the bottom of it.
I have conveyed Lord Aymeric's wishes to Coultenet and the others. For the present, their role will be to facilitate communication between our allies and gather information on our enemy.
Forename, do you have some time to talk?
I would like to gather everyone in Dawn's Respite and together assess the situation in which we find ourselves...
Let us take stock of the facts, shall we? The crisis at hand began with the sudden appearance of ominous towers in a multitude of locations throughout the world.
We have since learned that said structures were brought into being by an organization known as the “Telophoroi.”
The Telophoroi's stated purpose is to recreate the Final Days of eons past, an apocalyptic event that would result in the destruction of all we hold dear. Already have these towers of theirs been the cause of untold suffering.
Countless innocents kidnapped and imprisoned, their faith perverted for primal summonings...
And unless we find a way to deal with the corruptive aura surrounding the spires, we can't even get close enough to rescue anyone.
Those shielded with the blessing of Light seem able to resist being tempered, at least.
But after what happened to Arenvald and Fordola, we need to be very, very careful about how we proceed...
Yet while these threats close to home are of paramount concern, we mustn't lose sight of the situation in Garlemald.
As you know, the Telophoroi are under the leadership of Fandaniel and one other delightful fellow: Zenos yae Galvus, the crown prince and our dear friend.
To date, he's reclaimed his old body, murdered Emperor Varis, and plunged Garlemald into an even deeper pit of chaos.
The capital has probably seen the worst of it. For a good while there, it saw the bloodiest fighting in the war of succession. But that has since changed─and in troubling ways...
Aye, during our reconnaissance, the air was not once rent by the barking of cannons or the cries of discord. 'Twas an eerie fog of silence which did blanket that ruined city.
The inhabitants appeared to have been tempered, and with nary a word spoken did they labor to transform the palace into a soaring edifice born of nightmares.
If they were indeed made thralls, it seems safe to assume that these events, too, were orchestrated by the Telophoroi.
An army of primals is awful enough, but in light of recent developments, I fear it is only the prelude to an even greater catastrophe.
We need to devise a means to counter this threat, and quickly, before our allies are overwhelmed.
We will find a way in Sharlayan, I am sure of it.
Master Fourchenault's comments regarding the Final Days were curious to say the least. The Forum knows more than it is letting on...
Sorry to interrupt!
We've just received word from Mistress Krile! She says that arrangements for your visit have been finalized.
You're to head to Limsa Lominsa and board the next ship bound for Sharlayan...
And on arrival, present yourselves as “associates of the Students of Baldesion,” come to assist with the order's restoration.
The arrangements may be settled, but what of your thoughts? They must race at the prospect of returning home after so long.
...I am eager to see it, of course. Of course... Ahem. We should set off at once!
Then I'll accompany you to the docks. You need at least one person there to wave and cry and wish you a safe journey!
Safe journeys! And please, do be careful!
I never thought the day would come when I would be sailing home again. It always seemed so very far away...
Sea travel can be tedious, but I don't mind it. 'Tis a rare experience for most Ishgardians.
I shudder to think what manner of truth awaiteth us beyond the Indigo Deep. Still more do I dread the prospect of discussions long overdue...
Contrary to what you might think, this will be like going home for me as well. I may have learned how to survive in Limsa Lominsa, but it was in Sharlayan where I was taught─quite relentlessly, I might add─the skills to properly live.
I might have lived in Master Matoya's cave for a good part of my life, but even for me, the thought of “returning” to Sharlayan is quite exciting. I can hardly imagine how it is for the others who lived most of their lives there.
Though a part of me looks forward to returning home, I've not forgotten that my father stripped us of the privileges of our family name. I hope it doesn't cause trouble with the officials upon our arrival...
What a grim reason to bring you to Sharlayan. Not much to be done about it, I suppose, but I would've liked to give you the grand tour under happier circumstances.
Everyone's here! Which is good, because I've already paid for your passage, and the fee is nonrefundable.
The ship for Sharlayan should be pulling into port soon, so please follow me and have all your luggage close at hand!
They've almost finished loading our cargo. We should be ready to depart right on schedule, or so I'm told.
Excellent. 'Tis nice to have a smooth beginning to one's journey, at the very least.
It's funny...
Master Louisoix came here on a ship very much like this one.
And now, years later, the street urchin he befriended that day is bound for his mentor's homeland. With his mentor's grandchildren, no less.
Aye, 'tis upon reflection that every twist of time's river and fate's whims are brought into sharp relief.
Thou hast matured much in the intervening years. Wert thou not caught attempting to relieve Master Louisoix of his purse scant moments after he made landfall upon this dock?
Oh really? Now that's a tale I'd like to hear!
Will this be your first visit to Sharlayan, Ser Estinien?
...Ser Estinien?
Are we strangers newly met? Why this stiff formality?
I...ah...merely meant it as a professional courtesy, since we are now colleagues in an official sense...
I'd rather you dispense with the “sers,” especially in private company.
Or I'll be forced to respond in kind. “Little Lord Alphinaud.”
You've made your point, Estinien. Painfully well.
Better.
Are you all right, Tataru? You seem positively distraught.
Distraught? Me? Don't be silly! I think it's lovely that they get to see their homeland.
It's just...we're trying to thwart the schemes of an army hells-bent on destroying the world.
And once again I have to stay behind and worry that this is the last time I'll get to see my friends...
I'll hold you to that!
Well that's hardly comforting!
Ah, good, you're still here!
Hoary! Coultenet! What brings you all this way?
We're to assist the Maelstrom and the kobolds with a lunar primal operation, so we thought we'd see you off before heading to the tower.
F'lhaminn and the others wish you all a safe journey, and promise that they'll look after things here until you return.
We will too, of course! Aye, we your fellow Scions of the Seventh Dawn will do our part to ensure the end of the world won't happen on our watch!
