Halt.
Every face in this city I know. Yours I do not.
This is the threshold of the Crystarium, stranger, and I am its gatekeeper. If you would enter, you will answer my questions.
From where do you hail?
Do you take me for a fool? No such place exists.
“The Source”? What is this cryptic nonsense?
You will not say? Then I have even less reason to trust you.
Had you given me an honest answer, I would not have barred your way─we care little here for a person's place of origin. But instead you chose concealment, and I will not suffer you to pass...
That one had eaten. It must have gulped down the whole hand, ring and all...
Everything all right, Captain?
Quite all right, my lord. Just a stray sin eater, and a weak one at that.
I see. Weak or not, we should be on the lookout for more.
But I see you've met my guest. I will escort her to the Crystarium myself...if you've no objections?
Another of your mysterious friends, is it? I should have known.
Very well. I'll inform the others your guest is to be given the run of the city.
Pray forgive my less-than-cordial welcome. May the rest of your stay with us be a pleasant one.
Come with me. I will answer whatever questions you have when we are somewhere more private.
Right, then. Before we plunge into the wheres and wherefores, let me first thank you for answering my summons.
I had intended to bring you directly to my personal quarters, but I fear my aim was...slightly off. That you were still able to make the crossing unharmed is...a great relief.
And so we come to the question of where. The realm in which you now find yourself belongs to one of the thirteen reflections or shards─the First, to be precise─even if its inhabitants are largely oblivious to the fact.
As to wherefore... Having been awarded the rather grandiose title of “Crystal Exarch,” I─in my capacity as caretaker of the Crystarium─thought to seek the aid of you and your companions.
Ah. That...is a question with no simple answer. But all shall be explained in due course, I promise you.
...An inkling, yes. I can only beg your forgiveness─matters here forced my hand. But all shall be explained in due course, I promise you.
Let us begin with the glaring skies up above.
Here in the First, the world has been all but consumed by primordial Light.
It began a century ago, by this realm's reckoning. A luminous flood swallowing everything in its path. More than nine-tenths of this star was lost.
And the fortunate few who survived are hounded by abominations born of that catastrophe even now.
“Sin eaters,” we call them. The creature you saw earlier was one such monstrosity.
It was to save the First from this menace that I learned to bridge the rift between worlds─that I might call upon the aid of the greatest of heroes.
Though it meant depriving a world of its champion, I had to try─for in saving the First, you would bring salvation to the Source as well.
But what manner of host harangues his guest in the middle of the road? Let us continue our talk within the Crystarium.
Such a proud and vibrant city...
The sole sanctuary for the living in a world all but resigned to oblivion.
Each stone was laid with hope; the town itself a symbol, a monument to defiance in the face of death.
No would-be hero could fail to answer its call. For who among us does not yearn for salvation?
And here we are. Welcome, my friend, to the Crystarium.
Now, a full and frank discussion in the privacy of my study would seem to be in order...
...But I think our conversation would be more meaningful were you first to gain a firmer grasp of the situation here.
To that end, I would like you to visit a few of the Crystarium's civic leaders, and glean something of this world and its predicament.
As you can see, this path will take you directly to the aetheryte─a convenience with which I am sure you are only too familiar.
Being the rightful object of my summoning spell, you should in theory be able to reach all the way back along your aetheric trail and find a connection in the Source, believe it or not.
I strongly suggest you complete this attunement before venturing any further.
After you have done so, walk up the steps next to the aetheryte and head out to the left to arrive in the Crystalline Mean. This is where you'll find our collective of crafters and gatherers, as well as their spokeswoman, Katliss─one of the people I should like you to meet.
Another is Moren. To reach him and his “Cabinet of Curiosity,” you'll want to avoid the aforementioned steps, take the exit on the left, and simply continue straight along and down until you come to the large doors at the end of the path.
The third and final person I should like you to meet is Bragi, our man in charge of trade and distribution. He is to be found in the markets, which you can access from the opposite side of the aetheryte plaza.
In seeking out each of my colleagues, you will visit the major districts of the city, and hopefully gain a feel for the place. I trust my directions were simple enough?
Hah, very good. I concede, the layout of the Crystarium owes more to historic necessity than planning, but I'm sure you'll learn its twists and turns before long.
My apologies. I forget how confusing the Crystarium can be for newcomers. Not to worry! I'm sure you'll soon become accustomed to its twists and turns.
...In all honesty, the true challenge may be in finding the right way to approach its citizens.
As you discovered during your encounter with the captain, the people of this world are unaware of the existence of other stars, and will struggle to accept the truth of your origin.
That being the case, when they ask whence you hail─as they inevitably will─I suggest you claim to share a homeland with the Crystal Exarch. There is an unspoken rule here about peering too deeply into that particular mystery.
When you've finished making the rounds, pray meet me in the large courtyard at the center of town. Until then.
When you've finished making the rounds, pray meet me in the large courtyard at the center of town. Until then.
