S-S-Sorry, terribly sorry! I only thought to help... The crates looked awfully heavy, you see...
B-But you're right to be wroth at me! Yes, for why would you need my aid, with my arms thinner than sprouting reeds... I see the error of my ways. I shall shovel buffalo dung as punishment!
Ah, lad, sorry for snappin' at ye. Appreciate the thought, but the contents of these crates are my livelihood─can't trust just any passersby with their safe carriage, ye understand.
And truth be told, you came at me like a chocobo takin' its first steps. You need to strut with a bit o' confidence if you don't want people lookin' at you crosswise, see?
Ye've a good heart, lad. Anyone can see that. Work on yer manner and I reckon yer next attempt at charity'll go jus' fine.
Hmm. I can hazard a guess at what happened here, but I'd like to hear your side of the story nonetheless. Mind filling me in, Lyonell?
Oh, Master Haermaga! And who is this...?
It can't be... Is this woman my replacement!? Heavens forfend, I've been dismissed before my duty has even begun.
There's no need for all that. Forename here is a member of the guild, and she's here to help. But first, we need to know what's going on.
I, ah... You see, I was awaiting orders like you asked, but then I spied that man struggling to carry his goods. I thought to offer a helping hand, but...well, you saw how the rest went.
...I see. I can't fault you for trying to do good, lad, but what he said was right: your manner is bloody strange, and has been ever since you set foot on these sands. I don't recall you being so timid when first we met─if something's weighing on you, you needn't shy away from sharing the burden.
You're...too kind...
The truth is...I just can't bear to have my face seen by others. All those eyes on me...it's dreadful. Under a helmet, I have the confidence of a captain, but this heat has left me with no choice but to bare my naked face to all and sundry.
I'm afraid I'm likely to do more harm than help if I can't get my nerves under control. But the festivities are due to start soon, and I can scarcely stand to look even you in the eyes...
So that's the way of it. I appreciate your candor, lad.
If it's as simple as covering your face, we can get you sorted straightaway. Come with me to the storehouse. I have something there that I think you'll like.
As for you, Forename, you'd better wait on the beach for our return. Don't worry, we'll be back before you can break a sweat.
And here we are! Feast your eyes upon Costa del Sol's Sunshine Savior!
Blinded by its brilliance, aren't you? I had this lovely piece made the moment I conceived of the Sunshine Savior. A special commission from the Weavers' Guild!
But genius isn't always obvious, I discovered. My colleagues claimed the coloring was too bold, the design too daring. I believe the word “gaudy” was tossed about. And so, with a heavy heart, I set it aside─until today, that is.
By the gods, I feel a whole fulm taller! The fabric is so light it's like I'm wearing naught but my nameday suit! I'm ready to take on the world and then some!
Masks are usually for hiding one's true nature, but this is the Lyonell I remember. If you ask me, he looks the spitting image of a hero. But what do you think, Forename?
I'm overjoyed that you think so! Mark my words, the sands of Costa del Sol shall remain safe under the watchful eyes of the Sunshine Savior!
Really? I'm quite taken with it─I'm particularly fond of the avian motif. With this, festival-goers can rest assured that they shall be safe under the watchful eyes of the Sunshine Savior!
Now then, Lyonell, consider this your official appointment as the Sunshine Savior. Go forth, and remember that you carry the reputation of the Adventurers' Guild on your shoulders. Don't crumble under the weight, lad.
Become a savior worthy of your namesake, and our guests will soon forget the countless monsters and maladies that lurk beneath the tides. I know you won't disappoint!
Thank you, Master Haermaga!
Lyonell has a gods-honest chance to make a good run of it now, but that depends on him.
As the Sunshine Savior, I must bear all the responsibilities that the title implies. I can do this...I can become an adventurer that others speak of in awe!
By the way, I'd like to apologize for my embarrassing conduct before...
I admit a part of me is scared almost all of the time, but I can't let that dictate my life and my duty. Whatever happens, I swear to do all in my power to make this Moonfire Faire the safest yet!
That being said, I realize I still have much to learn, and would very much appreciate the aid of a seasoned adventurer such as yourself. Will you help me?
Thank you, Forename! I look forward to growing under your wing!
I'm ready to start whenever you are, Forename!
Lyonell looks every ilm the hero, and no mistake. But looks aren't worth a damn if his heart isn't in it.
How're you feeling under that mask, lad? Up for the work ahead?
About that... As much as I'd like to jump right into the thick of things, I can't help but harbor some small doubts.
The incident with the merchant earlier made me realize that it's one matter to want to aid those in need, but another matter entirely to know who needs it.
Fortunately, I have Forename by my side─a seasoned adventurer who's helped her fair share of troubled souls. I've asked her to take me under her wing for a bit, and I hope to be a quick study.
That's a capital idea, lad. Every adventurer has a few stories of being rewarded with scorn instead of coin. Strange as it sounds, a helping hand must be deft besides.
Well then, let's revise your tasks, eh? Give you a chance to sharpen that nose of yours to the scent of unrest.
Why don't you stand watch over the revelers gathered at the northeastern shores? If you spot trouble brewing, put a lid on it before it spills over.
Forename will attend you in a supervisory capacity. Before leaping into action, ask her for advice on how to conduct yourself. She'll guide you well, I've no doubt.
Now then, off with you! The battlefield on the beach awaits─make me proud, you two, make me proud!
A guild member by the name of Beaudefoin is standing by for someone to relieve him of his duty. Speak with him first, then show the realm the measure of a Sunshine Savior!
Beaudefoin should be patrolling somewhere nearby, assuming he hasn't caught a nap under some shade. Relieve him of his post─I'll be here waiting for tidings of your success!
This is it, Forename! It's time to prove myself worthy!
Why, if it isn't the Sunshine Savior, protector of the summer sands! Please, please, I release the beaches of Costa del Sol to your stewardship!
Ah, yes. Before I go, allow me to furnish you with these linkpearls. A crucial tool for a pair of strapping guardians such as yourselves. Godsspeed, saviors!
And now our watch begins! Go on, Forename, tell me what you see. If there is trouble lurking about, the Sunshine Savior shall rise to action!
