Bzzzt... Greetings, traveler. When venturing outside the outpost, beware malfunctioning units.
They do not heed Sir's commands, and indiscriminately attack all non-Omicrons.
For the avoidance of confusion, be advised that “Sir” is the alias of Stigma-1. Sir issues instructions to our forces as the foremost of the six strategic matrices that bear the designation Stigma.
For the further avoidance of confusion, be advised that Sir is composed of multiple distinct-but-interconnected units, each of which performs a specific function.
You learned a few things? So did I. Ere we share our findings, however, I believe it best to step outside the outpost. Come with me.
Ah, there you are!
We've finished surveying the area. This will come as no surprise, but there was no way forward.
There were portals like the one we used to get here, but those that worked only sent us to isolated isles.
Then as before, we must locate the embodiment of the emotion that bars the way.
What of yourselves? Did you find anyone to speak with?
So the Omicrons seek to advance themselves through conquest...
Following their victory over the dragons, they stand ready for the next campaign, but their leader has yet to issue new commands. And so they wait.
In such a place, who could it be that fits Urianger's description? A soul whose yearning for oblivion surpasses all others...
Urianger said this?
During our investigation, before we joined you in Elegeia.
So that's the way of it... Why couldn't he just say it to all of us?
Given what we know of this place, it's certainly a curious state of affairs.
While the dragons and the Ea longed for death, the Omicrons long for conflict. As much as that may lead to destruction, it must be considered a distinct desire.
In order to find the source of the dominant emotion, I believe we should seek out their leader. This “Sir.”
According to M-032─the first Omicron with whom we spoke─there is a console by which we might communicate with it.
M-032 also added that it would be a “pointless exercise,” but that in itself, I believe, is worth investigating. What say you?
“Pointless exercise”... What does that mean, I wonder...
Considering the Omicrons' single-minded character, the lack of new orders does seem unusual. I agree that we should seek out their leader.
So, the console we seek lies on the far side of this isle.
Given the nature of the ground, the route may not be entirely direct as it seems.
Let us all watch our step as we make our way.
The glow would suggest it is still operational. But how are we to interact with it...?
Greetings, Sir! Can you hear me? Say something if you can! Awaken! Activate! ...Password!
...Well, I tried.
This appears to be the console.
But it seems...unresponsive.
Would you care to take a look at it?
Judging by the size of the Omicrons we've met, I'm reasonably confident the console is controlled via the orb.
Judging by the size of the Omicrons we've met, I'm reasonably confident the console is controlled via the orb.
No luck, I see.
But there must be a way to activate it. There must...
Well, I'm out of ideas...
As am I. Operating such consoles is trying enough, but if we can't even activate it...
Perhaps there is a way.
First, consider the world that has been recreated here.
Its inhabitants were machines who gathered combat data to enhance themselves. And among the many wars they waged, the most notable was that against the dragons.
The significance of these details may be lost on you now, but they lead me to believe this was the home world of Omega.
Aye, I speak of the ancient weapon. The one which the Alliance unleashed upon Shinryu.
I will spare you the long story, but according to the records I read in the future, it possessed a single weakness: lightning.
That's all well and good, but what does that─ ...Wait, you're not thinking to strike the console with lightning, are you?
As a matter of fact, I am. Ask yourselves this: why would an entity as puissant as Omega not be designed to suppress the effects of lightning?
Because it relies upon it─or something akin to it─as a source of energy.
My thoughts exactly. And there is a good chance the same is true of the Omicrons and their devices.
So, shall I cast caution to the wind and try something reckless and dramatic?
Very well, here I go!
Worry not, I will be careful. And if it fails, we can think of something else.
It...it worked!
