Come, come, eat your fill of our food, and drink deep of our spirits. There is more than enough for all.
Well, when you put it that way─don't mind if I do!
She wasn't kidding when she said her mother could cook.
You know, seeing her with her family...I can't help thinking of my own.
How my father would come home from a hunt with dinner on his shoulder, and Yda would prepare it with herbs and spices... Our mother died when I was little, so she did most of the cooking...
We didn't have much, but we had each other. And that was enough for me.
But they wouldn't let us have even that. Theodoric, Gaius... Of course Father and Yda had to fight. I would have too, if I'd been older. But they didn't have to die...
It never ends, does it? They call us beasts...and they treat us like them. They push and they push and they...until someone pushes back. Until someone takes up arms or...or summons a god. A false god.
If the Twelve are watching us, what are they thinking?
What are they thinking when they see the strong hurt the weak? When people fight and die, and nothing gets better, and it just goes on and on and on...
...I know. That's why we're here, isn't it?
...I don't think the gods listen to people like me.
...I don't think the gods listen to people like me.
Thanks for listening. I know I was just rambling...but I feel better somehow.
Who knows what the answers are─or if there even are any. Either way, life goes on, and we've got to...go with it. Sorry, that sounded better in my head. I must be getting tired. Time to turn in, I think.
Tomorrow's another day, eh? Let's see what it brings. Sleep well, Forename.
There is something to be said for a home-cooked meal, is there not?
We must cherish these moments, fleeting as they are. The fight will always be there, waiting for us to return...
I trust you are well rested and refreshed, yes? Then let us return to the front.
The greater part of the Alliance forces should have advanced into the Peaks by now, but I expect we will pass many of our comrades on the road east.
There is a checkpoint along the way, as I recall, but we will need only to identify ourselves to the soldiers in order to pass.
