Admiral, we must leave!
Rrrgh!
How unlike you, old friend. I did not expect to take your arm so easily.
Take the Scions into custody! They have conspired to commit regicide!
And arrest this traitor as well!
Ilberd! I hope you choke on their coin!
'Tis better than the dirt I've supped on these long years. We can't all abandon Ala Mhigo and become great war heroes as you have.
You are not the man you once were, Raubahn. Since that girl strapped the yoke around your neck, you've become docile.
She took the mad bull and cut off his balls. And a bull that cannot rut is fit for naught but slaughter.
Shall I tell you who really killed your precious sultana?
...It was me.
You...You'll die!
I never doubted you. Not for a moment. But there is more to this than I yet understand.
Flee this place. Clear your names.
Find out who is behind this plot! It is the only way! Now go!
Ah, there you are!
Thancred! Where have you been?
Avoiding the fumbling advances of some very persistent admirers.
When I realized the celebrations had turned sour, it seemed prudent to slip away and take stock of the situation.
'Twould appear that much of the city is already under tight guard. It occurs to me that expanding the Brass Blades' authority may not have been such a wonderful idea after all...
The success of this plan was contingent upon those thugs having the run of the place. Just how long has this scheme been in motion?
The careful preparations, the maneuvering of forces... I am inclined to agree with the General's insistence that a deeper plot exists here.
So...would I be right in thinking we now have an excuse to pummel as many Brass Blades as we like?
Unless you plan on pummeling them all, I'm not sure that will greatly aid our cause.
The sultana's assassination was but one part of the scheme. We too were its targets. And though we did not share poor Nanamo's fate, we are yet hobbled by the charges laid at our door. Where now might we seek refuge?
Where indeed. We may safely assume that our foe has thought to have the Rising Stones watched.
Forgive me for stating the obvious, but our choice of destination will matter little if we cannot secure an escape route out of Ul'dah.
Happily, I believe I can provide one. Papashan once told me about the passages hidden in the walls of the palace. If I recall correctly, the fireplace in Nanamo's chambers conceals the entrance to a tunnel.
It should lead outside the city, and allow us to avoid any messy confrontations.
The rest of you go on ahead. I'll handle this lot!
By yourself!?
...I suppose I shall just have to join you.
Crystal Braves, too, huh? Now this should be interesting!
Yda! Papalymo!
We will hold our pursuers here. Hurry, now! Find this tunnel of Thancred's!
Minfilia! We cannot linger!
Ow! Now look what you've done!
Yda, are you all right!? There are just too many of them...
I'm fine! I could do this all day! How about you?
...Nearing the end of my tether.
This is so stupid! We're the Scions of the Seventh Dawn! The ones who stand between this realm and the evil that's trying to destroy it!
And if you think we'll leave the stewardship of Eorzea to the likes of your masters, then you're sorely mistaken!
Sorry I dragged you into this, Papalymo...
Hah, 'tis hardly the first time. And I'll be damned if it will be the last.
Let them have it, Yda!
I was hoping you'd say that!
I never knew such a watercourse existed beneath Ul'dah.
The architecture is of the Sil'dihn style, if I am not mistaken. The ancients plainly foresaw the need for a ready means of escape.
This way!
Well, that didn't take long. It seems these tunnels were not as secret as I had hoped.
You two go on ahead. Thancred and I will deal with this.
Wh-What do you mean to do!?
Only that which is required to ensure that the dawn's light survive to brighten the morrow.
Fear not, Antecedent. You haven't seen the last of these fair features.
My friends...
Leave us!
What is the plan, milady? Shall I take the dozen on the left, and you the dozen on the right? The odds are not exactly stacked in our favor...
Numbers will count for little when I bring the tunnel down upon their heads. Though I cannot say I relish the thought of being entombed with you for all eternity.
You wound me! I will have you know that many a maid would kill for the chance to spend forever at my side! Now, may I have the last dance?
Well, this is going splendidly... Now would be a good time, milady!
'Tis done!
Forgive me, Mhitra...
Farewell, Minfilia...
Hydaelyn... She speaks to me.
No!
I must remain behind...but you cannot stay with me.
Please, you must go on! You are the Warrior of Light! You are hope─for the Scions, and for all the realm!
As long as your flame continues to burn, the light of the dawn may ever be relit!
You must escape, and save Eorzea from those who would plunge it into darkness!
'Tis the only way...
I am glad to see you safe, my friend! What of the others?
Damn that man!
Teledji played me for a fool! I thought the Crystal Braves mine till the very moment I felt the blade at my back...
