Self-destruct sequence initiated... Sixty... Fifty-nine... Fifty-eight...
Seven hells! There's no time to get to safety! We must disable it before it blows!
Thirty... Twenty-nine... Twenty-eight...
No... No, no, NO! My secret weapon!
Gaaah! Damn it all! Miracles of magitek design, my arse! I've passed harder stools than these piles of scrap!
You'll pay for this! Mark my words, the next time we meet will be the last!
Aye! Run and tell your viceroy! The day belongs to Ala Mhigo!
Well done, all of you. I'd call this operation a resounding success.
Can't say I'm surprised. The “Bull of Ala Mhigo” had an impressive military record before he went west, as I recall.
Credit where it's due, Master Kemp. 'Twas Marshal Tarupin who made this plan, and all of you, Resistance and Alliance alike, who carried it out to perfection.
Aye, that they did. Not a single casualty, for which I'm grateful beyond words. I've no doubt our comrades back at the Reach will feel the same.
As will ours.
It's been a pleasure, General. Until the next battle.M'naago─I leave the Scions in your care.
We shall return to the castrum, then. Forename, Mistress Leveilleur─once more you have my thanks. As Master Kemp said, until the next battle.
I'd heard the stories, but to actually see you in action... I almost found myself pitying the imperials. Seriously, though─it was inspirational.
Ah, but you must be tired of hearing that, eh? I'll keep it simple, then─thanks for the help out there!
Well, there's no reason to remain here any longer. Let's get back to the Reach.
You didn't have to take part in the operation, but you did. You went above and beyond what was asked of you, without hesitation, and for that we owe you a debt.
Our victory may not count for much in practical terms, but its symbolic value can't be overstated.
Alliance and Resistance fighters came together to face an imperial unit equipped with Garlemald's newest weapons─and smashed them. The people will remember this day.
Aye, that they will, for it marks the beginning of something far greater than any single victory: the beginning of a campaign by a united Eorzea to drive the Garleans from our lands.
Promises and platitudes mean naught without action. But the Alliance took the field and risked their lives for our cause.
Hah, to think that the last time Gridanian troops trod this soil was more than a century ago, during the Autumn War─and that was to defend against our invasion.
Ours is a long and bloody history, to be sure, and it gives me heart to see that despite our acrimonious past, we can still come together for the sake of the future.
Well said, Commander! Which is why I intend to go from village to village and spread word of our victory and our new alliance.
The people will flock to our banners. Just you wait and see!
Forename, Alisaie, I cannot thank you enough for your assistance!
At the risk of repeating myself, it's still hard for me to believe that we'd meet again here, of all places... Though I reckon you probably don't remember me after all this time, eh?
I'm impressed! Given everything you went on to accomplish, you'd be forgiven for forgetting all about your time in Quarrymill. Suffice it to say, we didn't forget about you, either─nor the lives you saved.
No, no, 'twas a lifetime ago. There is no need to apologize. But know that down in Quarrymill, we didn't forget about you─nor the lives you saved.
As for me...I went to Little Ala Mhigo while Gallien was recovering. Gundobald was my former commander and an old friend, and I had a lot on my mind...
In the end, I decided to disband our unit. I told the men to live their lives as they saw fit. Some chose to remain in Little Ala Mhigo, and others went to Ul'dah for work.
But, as you can see, I chose to come back to Gyr Abania and join Conrad and the others.
I've kept busy since then, ferrying people and provisions across the border and back. It's not been easy, but it's been fulfilling.
Today, however, we'll be heading east into the Peaks. Conrad thinks we might have luck finding new recruits in the village of Ala Gannha.
Ala Gannha!? If you're going there, you're taking me with you!
Ah, that's right─you're from Ala Gannha, aren't you, Lyse? By all means, we'd welcome the company.
There'll be more to it than just asking around, but we can talk about it on the way. Make your preparations and meet me by the tunnel to the Peaks.
This tunnel will take us all the way to the Peaks.
We're on a mission for Conrad to Ala Gannha. Clear the barricade, if you would.
