What fortune to receive such a promising test subject...
This way, little one, this way. Time for your medicine...
Hm. Well. We have data enough. We will learn from this.
Understood. We're on our way.
Lyse's unit should be advancing upon the fire control center in the command tower. Let us join them.
Lyse! Thank the Twelve you're all right.
And you! There's the control center. Let's hit them hard and fast. Ready?
They're here!
It was you, wasn't it... Wasn't it!?
Aye, I gave the order to fire.
It was over! The Skulls had surrendered! No one else had to die!And you killed them! Your own people! Your own comrades!
You're right. I killed them. Ansfrid, Hrudolf, Emelin, all the rest─trained and fought with every last one of them. Good soldiers to a man.
I gave the order that led to their deaths...and I knew exactly what I was doing.
But why!? Why would you do that!?
They died so that all Ala Mhigans could live free. That was all we ever wanted.
We made a promise that we would do whatever it took so that one day...one day the imperials would learn to accept us.
But everything comes at a price. And if you haven't got the means to pay, then you pay with blood.
Service guarantees citizenship, but citizenship guarantees naught. It's not enough to do your part, oh no. You have to run faster, fight harder, kill more and more and more─and only then will you be equal.
That's just how it is out here in the provinces. You buy your freedom with blood─there is no other way!
Shut up! Shut your mouth! You don't get to talk about freedom!You killed your own! They trusted you and you killed them!
Murderer! Butcher! Traitor!
Lyse!
Gotcha!
I know what you can do. I've already seen it.
Alisaie!
Even so, the odds are against me...
Coward! Get back here!
Hero! Lord Zenos invites you to join him for the royal hunt, to be hosted at the palace. You may bring your horde, if you like. All are welcome.
She'll be all right, but we'll need to carry her. Will you help me?
Thank you. Lyse, I leave matters here in your hands.
Uh, right...
Well, we did it. Castrum Abania belongs to us now...
Naago and her people took Alisaie to Radiata to receive treatment. Alphinaud tells me she'll make a full recovery...
I know I should be happy. We won, and with minimal casualties. But somehow...it feels empty.
We should report to General Aldynn. Krile wasn't here, but who knows, maybe one of Raubahn's men found something which could lead us to her. Can't hurt to ask, anyway.
Forename, Commander Hext. Fine work you did today.
After Specula Imperatoris, we needed a resounding victory like this. Thanks to you, Rhalgr's star yet burns bright.
I'm glad, I really am. But you should know that Alisaie was injured in the fighting...
...Regrettable, but I am pleased to hear that she will make a full recovery. Fordola's parting words, on the other hand, ring less favorably in my ears.
But if Zenos wishes to invite us to his so-called “royal hunt,” then this bull would fain accept!
...What troubles you, Lyse?
O-Oh, it's nothing really, just that...we're almost to the end, but we've still got to save Krile and do so much more...
We'll find her soon enough. Pipin has his best men scouring the castrum's archives as we speak.
...
...Listen, Lyse. It will take time for us to fully occupy the castrum and prepare to advance into the Lochs. While we wait, there is something I would like to show you. Both of you.
After all, this may be the last chance we have to catch our breath before the final push.
I don't see why not...
Then come with me to Radiata. From there we'll need to follow another road south.
Even after all these years, it's still the same... Ah, but I'm getting ahead of myself. You deserve a proper welcome.
Forename, Lyse─I brought you both here for a reason...
I wanted to show you this house. My house.
You mean...this is where you grew up?
Aye. Not much to look at, is it?
Same could be said of the village. It was damn near impossible to live offthe land, barren as it was─which is why so many of us traded our plowshares for swords.
Swords and uniforms, mind. We became military men. Tensions were rising between Ala Mhigo and the Empire, and there was always a need for more soldiers to watch the border. 'Twas only a matter of time before the first skirmishes broke out.
It is a frightening thing to face magitek armor for the first time. But after a lot of trial and error, I found ways to bring them down. After a few victories, people even said I had a knack for it.
And then one day they hit us. Hard. I was wounded and sent home to recover. Back here...
