Who are you supposed to be? Never seen the three of you in my life.
Or the...four of you? Wicked white, if you're going to bother me, at least have the damned courtesy to stand still!
Methinks this one is deep in his cups.
These are my guests, Magnus. We ran into them at the mines.
They're looking for a way to reach Nabaath Areng, so they came to ask about the trolley, you see...
What? There's nothing in Nabaath Areng. Not anymore.
And especially not for frail little girls. Give it up.
...No. We must reach Nabaath Areng. I must.
Bah. So you have your heart set on it─the world doesn't care. The place is a ruin, nothing more.
And you're not getting there in the trolley. The thing doesn't run on hopes and dreams.
We're not fools─it's necessity that drives us to Nabaath Areng. If you insist that the trolley is not an option, at least tell us why.
No. I'm sick of people asking me about the blasted thing. Leave me be.
...We'll speak outside.
He only said that because...because he thinks I'm weak. And he's right. But I can't be─I won't be forever.
There has to be some way... I must find it.
Oh! I'm sorry. I was...stuck in my own head again.
It's clear that Magnus has no intention of helping us, but perhaps we should ask the other residents? They may know something of the trolley.
I'll take the north side of town. Let me know if you learn anything!
Thancred, art thou truly content to stand witness to fate's course and take no part?
This isn't a matter of fate, Urianger. It's about choice. And I've had years to decide where I stand.
Minfilia has spent too long in chains already. I would not shackle her again by making my hopes known.
It is for her to choose what shape her destiny will take. It is for me to stay silent. To protect her, teach her, and stand by her. That, at least, I can do for her.
...So be it. Come, let us make our own inquiries.
Oh, there you are! You'll be pleased to know that I got our friend back home with no trouble, and he's just fine. He was a bit shaken up, is all.
And you? What did Magnus have to say?
Ah. I did have a faint hope that your need might prompt him to action where our interest has not, but I suppose that was foolish of me.
I am sorry that we couldn't be of help, though. I could at least show you the trolley car we have here, if you like? You could give it a stroke or two─it has some very smooth wood...
You mean to say you're not giving up? Even knowing that Magnus is...Magnus?
I don't see much point in your being stubborn about it. Though...perhaps stubbornness is exactly what this situation calls for. Can't forge iron without an anvil, after all.
I can't imagine that anything you try will work. But if you're certain, you can help me make preparations in the event that it does!
To that end─take this toolbox. We're going to inspect the rails!
I'll have a look along the tracks for anything that's in need of repair. You bring the tools, and be ready to hand them to me whenever I stop to work.
I'll have a look along the tracks for anything that's in need of repair. You bring the tools, and be ready to hand them to me whenever I stop to work.
This spot looks like it could use a bit of work. Can you ready the tools for me?
Brilliant! Now, if you could hand me what I need as I work, that would be a help.
In this case, hmm... Well, this bolt is loose, for one matter. We can't have that. I'll need to tighten it.
That's...not how this works. That's not how any of this works.
I need something to tighten the bolt, please.
I could use this to wipe any excess oil clinging to the bolt, but I don't think that will be necessary in this case.
I'd like to move right to tightening the bolt, so please hand me the tool for that.
Thank you! This one will do nicely.
Now give me one moment, and...
There! I don't see any other problems here, so let's continue along the track.
There! I don't see any other problems here, so let's continue along the track.
You're quite handy to have around, you know?
As to the lamp here... These aren't often necessary these days, but if we're going to do this, we might as well do it properly.
And if, by some miracle, the night returns, as it did in Lakeland... Well, it's a nice thought.
Anyhow, a bit of this post seems to have splintered. Whether its lamp is to be lit or not, we wouldn't want these little pieces of wood jabbing the next person who comes through here to do maintenance. I'll need to sand it down a bit.
Sure, I'll simply hack at it with this massive saw...
Honestly, are you away with the fae!? We're trying to prevent splinters, not chop down the post like a tree!
Now, hand me something a bit more delicate, if you please.
Er... You have an interesting sense of humor.
Now, can I have the proper tool this time?
Yes, a wood file's perfect.
Let me even this out...
That should do it. I'll bring some varnish along next time to finish the job.
I haven't spotted any other problems, so we can move along now. Unless you'd like to take in the view of the tracks from here for a bit longer? It's breathtaking, I know.
Mining has always been the primary vocation of folks in the Hills of Amber, you see. But after a certain point, they had dug up everything that could easily be reached and carried back by manpower alone.
It was then that the Nabaath Empire struck upon the idea of the Talos, which they had seen at work abroad.
At great expense, the Nabaath brought the Mystel engineers who specialized in Talos here, to the Hills. And wouldn't you know it, the mining industry picked right up again.
Twine itself sprung up around that time, as a matter of fact.
It was named after the “entwining of tails”─the fruitful cooperation between the native Ronso and the newly come Mystel.
But that, like so much else, fell apart in the wake of the Flood. The Mystel left, taking their knowledge with them.
It was fifteen years ago that the last of them, the folks from Daedalus Stoneworks, took off for Eulmore. And now no one remains that can repair and operate the Talos.
But there's no use in lamenting what can't be changed. And there's one more thing we need to do while we're out here, so we might as well get to it.
Vultures occasionally make their nests on the tracks, you see, and it falls to us to remove them when they do. The creatures are angry when disturbed─which is natural, but nevertheless a danger to anyone passing by.
It's not my favorite task, to be honest with you. As you may have noticed, I'm not terribly suited to confrontation. That said─would you follow the tracks north and remove any nests you find for me? I'll keep an eye on things from here.
Thank you. That should be everything taken care of.
In return for your help, I'll tell you a bit more about the trolley. Nothing that can get it started again, though─as I said, the only people who knew how to repair the Talos are long gone.
When they left, the life began to bleed out of the town. The trolley's tracks rusted, and its cars fell into disrepair. Now, I was born in Twine, raised there─my first word was “trolley,” dammit─and those were the worst years of my life.
But then, about seven years past, Magnus and his wife returned to us.
Magnus is a real, proper trolley engineer, and perhaps he would never have left in the first place─if it hadn't been for his son. As you're well aware, Amh Araeng is hardly the safest place, and Magnus wanted his child to grow up away from its dangers.
It didn't help, in the end. The sin eaters got the boy. Isn't that always the way?
The child had always said that someday, he wanted to see Magnus's trolley running again─so in his memory, they returned to Twine. Started fixing those rusted rails and broken cars. And it was going well, for a time...
Wicked white, vultures? Are they back for revenge? Never mind, I don't want to find out!
Ahem. Nice work out there.
And now you know the story of the trolley. Won't do you much good without the Talos, though.
If there was even a single one that still functioned, things might be different, but...well, here we are.
Not that it'll do you any good, but we do have a Talos we've been meaning to repair.
I can show you if you'd like. It'd certainly be nice to hear something other than Magnus's griping for a change.
Truly a most vexing state of affairs. I thought mayhap a closer examination might yield something of value...
I see. The means to build Talos stone by stone are lost to us, 'tis true, but here before us slumbers a most fine specimen.
Indeed, were it not for a few minor failings it would be in working condition.
'Twill likely require naught but a few modest repairs and a suffusion of aether.
Well, if you think you can get the thing up and running, far be it from me to stop you. But, what exactly do you reckon is the problem?
I should stress that I have performed only the most cursory of examinations, though such arcane constructs are not wholly unfamiliar to me. As I did suspect from the first, it is host to a network of veins through which aether floweth freely.
Or so it would, were it not for several fractures which now impede said flow.
How in the hells did you get all that from just a glance? I take it you've thought up a solution as well, then?
To bridge these fissures requireth a material highly conductive to aether. Once in place, I believe it will be possible to restore the Talos to life.
Might I prevail upon thee to acquire that which we require?
Not far beyond the walls of Twine dwelleth a creature of living stone─the debitage. Full sure am I that stone from such a being would prove most suitable to our needs.
Very good. I shall have Thancred and Minfilia attend me in the remaining preparations.
I spied but three obstructions to the flow of aether in the Talos, and thus would I ask you provide three stones of the debitage. All else will be made ready upon thy return.
Thancred and Minfilia will return ere long with the remaining supplies we require.
Didst thou succeed in procuring stone from the debitage?
Fine specimens one and all. You have my thanks. We need now but wait for Thancred and Minfilia's return.
From end to end, the paths by which aether may flow through the Talos have been duly mended.
They but require a sufficient enduement.
It's...not moving.
Strange... The core refuseth to stir. I fear the condition of this Talos is more dire than I previously surmised.
As a heart driveth blood through a man's veins, so doth the core aether throughout this massive frame. Failing its repair or replacement, the Talos cannot be restored.
So it was the heart after all...
Thou didst foresee this outcome?
Well, no. Not exactly. We'd never gotten this far in trying to repair it, so we had no way of knowing the heart was the real problem.
We tried to find another. In case things turned out as they are now, but...
...Jeryk?
This isn't really my story to share.
Please, Jeryk. If something went wrong, maybe we can help.
All right, all right. After all you lot have done for me, I suppose it's the least I can do.
Right, then. The Talos...their hearts cannot be made of just any stone. You need a special sort with sufficient aetherial conductivity. Both it and the other materials used in the construction of Talos bodies are mined in the same place...
That place, of course, being here. The Hills of Amber...
And it was three years ago when...when she...
No, no I can't. I'm sorry, but you'll have to hear it from Thaffe or someone else.
<sigh> Back to the tavern, then.
Still here, eh? You can ask again, but the answer's the same. Our trolleys are─
What!? Godsdammit Jeryk. You could've at least finished so I wouldn't have to clean up your mess.
Seeing how you made such quick progress in fixing that Talos and all, he was probably thinking you could help change things around here.
And I think he may be right... Gather your friends, and I'll tell you what you want to know.
Magnus's wife was a miner, you know. Greatest prospector there ever was.
When the golem hearts started failing, she was the first to head out in search of more.
Problem was, most of the veins ran dry ages ago, and finding fresh ones to tap's only gotten harder.
But she wasn't one to be deterred. She just kept digging deeper and deeper. And then the mine collapsed.
We labored day and night to clear away the rubble, but it took us two months to find her...
...To find her body.
Magnus has never been the same since.
Where is he, if you don't mind my asking?
Ah, yes, well...if he's not here, there's only one other place he'd be.
What? Oh... You again.
How many times must I tell you─the trolley won't run! We'd be better off dismantling the damn thing and selling the parts for scrap.
Now piss off back to wherever you came from, and don't let me catch you around here again.
...What were their names?
My son was named Skuli. My wife, Agna.
Being here with them...it beats going home. Home stopped being home when I lost them.
I thought to try and drown my sorrows...but somehow...the bottle's never deep enough.
No bottle is. Believe me─I know.
You've lost someone too?
Not like you. Not my own flesh and blood.
I grew up an orphan, so I never really knew what family meant.
Not until I met a man who offered to take me in and make me his pupil. He was a kindly soul. Always looking out for me, like a father. Not that I appreciated that at the time, or anything else for that matter...
But I finally had a family. And then...and then I robbed a young girl of hers.
I did my best to make amends, to offer her comfort. But the more I look back on it, the more I realize just how inadequate my efforts were. I let her down.
That is why I refuse to let her legacy die.
In the end, all we can do is press on. For those we have lost. For those we can yet save.
And that requires your Talos. Please, Magnus. You are our only hope of reaching Nabaath Areng.
...What rubbish.
She's not gone. No matter what you say or believe, she's not.
We can still bring her back.
Full well do I know the pain of loss and how heavily it can weigh on one's heart. Nevertheless, there is but one way forward.
We must needs procure a new heart for the Talos.
Thaffe. Knowest thou any location wherein we might find the stone we require? No matter how scant the possibility, we would seize it.
I told you near all of the veins were tapped dry years ago. ...Though I suppose, if you really wanted to try, you may find something at Nuvy's Leavings.
It was opened well before Talos became commonplace, which is why the mining there was never quite as deep.
When you get there, look for Guthjon and tell him I sent you. But don't be surprised if he tells you the same thing.
Thine assistance is most appreciated.
Forename. I think it best Thancred join thee in this search.
Though he wouldst be quick to deny it, his heart is in turmoil, and his thoughts clouded.
'Twould be unwise to ignore his distress.
Off to somewhere, are you?
At last, a lead on the stone we need to power the Talos.
I can't very well have you go on your own. Lead the way.
I'd say we're long overdue for a good turn. I can only hope the gods feel the same way.
Now, Nuvy's Leavings was to the south, was it? Let's get going.
The way you described it, I was expecting the place to be abandoned.
Perhaps our fortunes are finally improving. Though we should probably hear what Guthjon has to say before we celebrate─assuming we can find him, that is...
