You conquered Bardam's Mettle.
As warriors of the Mol, aye. You are the khan here, yes? Why have you summoned us? Mayhap to propose a joint endeavor?
Nay, Doman. We shall not speak as equals. Born of the Sun are Oronir, and born of the earth are you.
When I learned of trespassers, I bade my warriors take their measure.To flay them if they failed.
But if by the grace of Azim they should survive their trials and emerge anointed, then bring them hither to pay tribute.
Tribute, should it prove satisfactory, shall earn you the favor of the Sun. His beloved shall bask in his radiance, and their supplications be duly considered.
So you want us to bow down and serve you. What if we don't feel like it?
The defiant will suffer in shadow. It would be an affront to the resplendent Azim himself to refuse this generous offer when by rights you should be condemned. But, in lieu of tribute...
Swear fealty to the Sun. Pledge to him your body and soul. Promise to serve him unto death, and you may know his glory.
A generous offer granted to but few...though perchance this is too merciful.
Hm. It seems our brothers of the Buduga want you.
The men only.
Like the Borlaaq and women─though you know them not either, I am sure. No matter. All you need know is that you will serve, one way or another.
That much does indeed seem plain. However, as we are but newborn warriors who know little of your customs, we struggle to conceive of ways in which we might be of service to the most gracious and illustrious Sun.
You make mock of us, Doman. Do not do so again.
You will be given a task. It will be difficult. You will carry it out. When you have accepted this, you may ask me what it is.
...Were I Buduga, I might take offense.
But I know better than to dismiss a woman outright. You demonstrate boldness...or recklessness. Time will tell.
The Naadam approaches, and the Oronir will reign supreme once more. Such is the will of Father Azim.
Yet only fools think to triumph by the grace of the gods alone─and we are not fools.
Your task will be to aid us in our preparations. Baatu will tell you the rest.
Warriors of the Steppe! By the grace of our most radiant brother, you will not die this day, but instead be granted an opportunity to contribute to our cause.
Rejoice, for this is a great honor indeed. Serve well, and you will be rewarded.
Question! You keep calling Magnai your “most radiant brother.” You're not related or something, are you?
...All Oronir are descendants of Father Azim. But if you mean to ask if our mothers are one and the same, then no. The most radiant is the elder brother to we younger─the strongest and most deserving of respect.
No more interruptions! Your duties are as follows.
You, the red woman. You will milk our beasts. To grow strong, one must be well fed, and we have great need of kumis and cheese.
...Is that it? I mean, I'm not happy about all this, but I suppose I can go along for now.
You, the one who lumbers as a mountain... Hm. An old warrior, I see. We have arms and armor in need of repair. Go and speak with our menders.
I have no talent for delicate work, but if that is your wish, then so be it.
You, the insolent fool. As for you─
