Your friend has a fine physique and exceptional fashion sense. Having an attractive young man such as him model our garments is the best form of advertisement.
Thanks, lady.
Anyway, I wanna explore some more. You're cool to hang out for a bit, yeah?
After all that, I still don't have any idea how I'm supposed to get home...
For now, it looks like there's nothing I can do except wait for Kipih to dig up clues.
So I was thinking, I've come all this way to this beautiful place. I might as well try to see what I can of it, so I've got something to tell my friends.
...It may not look like it, but I'm kinda crazy about fishing. I go whenever I have time, and I've got time now, so I'm gonna hit up a place nearby. You should come too.
What took you so long? I've already reeled in a dozen.
To be honest with you, I'm worried. I keep thinking, what if I never found my way back? And it gets me down.
But being here in this tranquil forest and casting the line... It calms me. Helps me focus.
I have to get back. People are counting on me.
And I'm counting on you.
Oh hey, let's take a photo together. That massive waterwheel over there would make for a great backdrop.
Great.
Huh, guess you don't have cameras here. So, a photo is a... Actually, let me just show you.
You ready? Here we go!
Nice! I can practically hear Prompto say “Love the lighting!” Can't wait to show this to the fellas when I get back.
You're right, we should be getting back ourselves. Come on, let's go.
Forename, Noctis! Thank the gods you're back!
What's the matter?
I've just learned from a colleague that the mechanical soldiers have also appeared in Ixali territory.
That in itself wouldn't be a cause for concern, but the beastmen responded with alarm to the trespassers and have summoned forth Garuda!
That bird lady? Pretty sure we already took care of her. Back in my world, anyway.
What!? You mean to say you are a primal-slayer like Forename!?
Primal? Is that like an Astral or a Messenger?
Well, whatever it is, we'll take care of it one way or another. So, where's Garuda supposed to have appeared exactly?
At the Howling Eye, her domain to the north. But it's nigh impossible to venture near, for Garuda shrouds her sanctuary with violent winds.
If you are determined to face her, however, I will contact the Ironworks and request a loan of an airship.
Very well, then. While you see to your preparations, I will secure your transportation.
When you are ready, come and meet me in front of the Carline Canopy.
You've proven yourself a friend. If we're gonna face Garuda together, I'll lend you the power of kings.
It's a special power that I have, but I can share it with others.
With it, you can quickly warp around, like you've seen me do. Might take some getting used to, but I'm sure you've got what it takes.
Garuda's causing trouble because of the MTs, and I feel responsible for bringing them here. Let's go make things right!
Ready when you are!
The airship is ready to bear you and Noctis into battle! Are your preparations in order?
Without further ado, then!
