None can compare to the Resilient Son!
The First Promise was born to sit the throne!
He will be a great Dawnservant!
Visions? What is he seeing?
Is he hallucinating?
Out of my way!
Is this my weakness, given shape?
Down with you!
Alphinaud, get clear!
Understood!
Thick as thieves, these two...
No limits will bind me!
Stop this! Your body won't survive!
He won't stop! It falls to us to stop him!
Begone, along with my pitiful past!
None can compare to the Resilient Son!
The First Promise was born to sit the throne!
He will be a great Dawnservant!
Estinien, this way!
Right!
Yaaaaaarrrgh!
I am the worthy king!
There is no miracle!
This is my path!
I trust only in myself!
Hahahahaha! It's mine—the ultimate power!
This power is proof of my authority!
A frightful transformation...
This is the power you sought...?
This is the power you sought...?
He controls the blades!
Hyaaah!
It's outside next!
We can avoid it by closing the distance!
Creation yields to my command!
What's happened!?
He's manipulated the ambient aether!
He's manipulated the ambient aether!
Hmph, just a fancy trick.
My will resonates within reality!
He's gathered blades outside!
He's gathered blades outside!
Observe the aether, and you'll see where it's safe!
Keep calm and watch the flower of aether...
Wh-What am I supposed to do!?
Mine is the path!
He's created spatial distortions!
Swords outside! Watch out!
Swords outside! Watch out!
Their course changed!
An irksome technique...
All is mine to make and unmake!
Argh, I've no idea what I'm looking at!
Bleed!
Bleed!
Mine is the power!
Mine is the path!
The flow of aether has become more distorted!
Fly, my blades!
No more looking! I'm going with feeling!
Everyone, gather to me!
No mercy!
Ugh!
We must hold fast!
Resonate!
Bleed!
No mercy!
Brace yourselves!
You won't get the best of us!
Evade this!
His desire to surpass his father knew neither limit nor reason.
So it is done...
If only you had found another way...
Brother...
He has used up all of his souls, as he said he would.
It's finally over...
He truly held nothing back...
Brother...
So...it is to be defeat...
Father? Is that you?
Why do you weep?
Because it hurts...
Because I don't understand why it had to be this way. Why don't I know you?
Why didn't you want me?
How could I be a father...when my own spurned me?
He left me nothing. No throne. No legacy. Nothing. And so I had nothing to leave you.
Why does that matter!?
Couldn't you have just...been there?
You ask a lost man for the way...
I do not presume to call you mine...nor do I desire anything of you.
But I leave behind that which I've gained by the sweat of my brow... It is yours to embrace...or spurn...
I walked a path of ruin...
Unable to surpass Father...
Or Lamaty'i...
So much...
For the Resilient Son... The miracle...
You think Papa left you nothing?
You godsdamned fool! You have the one thing he couldn't leave anyone else! You and Gulool Ja!
It's not over!
Queen Sphene?
Zoraal Ja is gone. There's no need to fight anymore.
Sphene?
Why are you here?
I wanted to express my gratitude to you all. For vanquishing the King of Resolve and delivering my people.
And to express my regret for what I've done to yours.
Your apologies won't bring back our dead or lessen your guilt.
Still, to strike you down in revenge would trigger all-out war between our nations. More innocents would suffer.
Even if we cannot be friends right now, we need to find a different path forward. A way that Tuliyollal and Alexandria can coexist.
I fear that can never be.
What do you mean?
There is no other path for us. It's too late.
I cooperated with Zoraal Ja because I needed the life force yielded by the slain to sustain the Endless.
Of course, the king betrayed me, and with his army defeated, that plan can no longer be realized.
But I can't─I won't─fail my people. Be they possessed of flesh or no, all of them are dear to me.
If there is something I can do for them, as their queen, I must do it!
Hear me, Sphene. We appreciate your commitment to serving the Alexandrians and have endeavored to understand your beliefs.
Be that as it may, you must know it's wrong to sacrifice our living to save your dead!
I see. It's because you do not know them that you believe they're dead.
They're not. So long as they are remembered, they shall never die.
You understand, don't you?
No matter what anyone may say, I refuse to believe that Cahciua's is a hollow existence. That she can simply be allowed to fade away!
Your Majesty...
I...
...am the bearer of the memories of Queen Sphene of Alexandria, and my desire to protect my people transcends all others!
For them, I will do anything! No price is too high!
Seven hells!
What is it!?
There exists a legend in Alexandria. In ages past, faced with a calamity in their world, a clan of people used a singular power to flee to ours.
The key which manifests this power answers to fervent desires. Desperate, all-consuming supplications that have given rise to many a miracle.
That key holds the secret to interdimensional fusion, and unraveling its mysteries was the foremost mission of the scientists of Preservation.
Alas, they failed to fully grasp its workings, leaving us with only partial control over it.
Nevertheless, if I'm to sustain the inhabitants of Living Memory, I have no choice but to call upon its power.
And do what with it?
For hundreds of years I tried, but it was all to no avail.
My benevolence did naught to protect my realm...
But I can still take up arms and fight.
If bloodshed will save my subjects, then I will become history's most brutal queen.
Wait!
Oh, Sphene...
Mother? What's happened to you?
Mother? What's happened to you?
Father...
You godsdamned fool...
Sphene has the potential to wreak unimaginable havoc with the key. We have no time to waste.
That such a threat existed in another reflection... When Emet-Selch bade you seek discovery, was he aware of it?
What you're doing is wrong, Sphene. No matter how hard you try to convince yourself otherwise...
This truly bodes ill...
No sooner do we deal with one threat...
That woman─Sphene, was it? In all likelihood, her true form lies in the reflection yonder.
But how to go after her now...
Cahciua might know something, but her vessel ceased to function when the portal closed.
Let us examine it. With luck, it will yield some much-needed clues.
The key to interdimensional fusion... It did not seem so wondrous a thing to me...
The key to interdimensional fusion... It did not seem so wondrous a thing to me...
Cahciua said that she operates her vessel from afar.
Could something have befallen her!?
The words Sphene spoke to your mother─did they mean anything to you?
Those who came from my village... None of them remembered her.
It's the same as what we witnessed happen to those who knew Namikka.
Then Cahciua is...
You noticed something, didn't you? Whatever it is, please tell me.
While Sphene projected herself onto machines, Cahciua controlled hers remotely. But to me, they appeared identical in their existence.
Both were inorganic objects suffused with faint amounts of aether. When that aether faded, they became lifeless husks.
And as we all saw, this happened to both the moment the portal closed...
So Cahciua was operating her vessel from the reflection beyond?
But if none of her friends and acquaintances here remember her, then...
The Endless... Those who are recreated from memories of the departed.
All this time, my mother was dead. She fooled us all.
Sphene, for one, does not seem to think of them in that way.
No. She loves them like she does all her citizens, and she'll do anything to protect them.
Such as plundering aether from the Source. Alas, Zoraal Ja had his own agenda and spoiled the plan.
But now that she possesses the key, she could target other reflections without our interference. Reflections whose people have no idea what she is willing to do.
Then the people of the Source are not the only ones in danger. We must stop her.
We have to go where Sphene has gone. I want to talk to her again. And perhaps we'll find Cahciua as well...
With the gate closed, we need to find an alternate means of passage. I will look into it.
Thank you.
Let us begin by investigating this place. There may be clues relating to what lies beyond.
Let me help. I'll do whatever you need me to do─anything at all!
Of course, my friend. Your knowledge and expertise would be most welcome.
I expect the investigation will take time. Perhaps you'd like to head back below with Gulool Ja and get some rest.
That's not a bad idea. We do need to share these developments with those in the Backroom as well.
Come on, Gulool Ja.
You too, Forename. You've more than done your part for now, so leave this to us.
I'll be fine. You don't need to worry about me.
I was a living a life of excesses, bound for an early grave, when Cahciua came along. Though I was a complete stranger, she took me under her wing and set me straight.
It was out of gratitude that I joined Oblivion, but I can't imagine any other life now. I owe her everything I have, and it pains me that I couldn't say good-bye...
Times like this, ye've got to keep yer hands movin'.
So much has happened and so quickly, I'm still catching up mentally.
But where it concerns Zoraal Ja, I have no regrets. I made my choice and did what I had to do.
I only wish I could have stopped Sphene too. Stopped her from walking her misguided path...
<sigh> I could definitely use some rest...
I'm really sorry, but we're not sure what happened to Cahciua. The others are trying to learn what they can.
Oh, Cahciua... We'd known that such a day would come, but I wish we could've at least said good-bye...
You knew, then. That she was already gone.
We did. We all did.
Cahciua forbade us from saying anything. She wanted to tell you herself when the time was right.
I expect she was torn over how to reveal the truth to Erenville.
I see... I don't think anyone can blame her for keeping quiet.
But tell me─how are the people faring? Have they forgotten Zoraal Ja already?
No, they still remember him. We wonder if this might be the result of the gate at the summit being closed.
Most are unaware of developments. They'll be relieved to hear that the king has been defeated, but at the same time, they're like to panic if they learn that the queen has disappeared.
Right now, Geode is making contact with the various government bodies, but it'd probably be best to keep it all under wraps for a time.
Agreed. Once we've resolved matters, I'll explain everything to the people. I consider it my duty.
As to Zoraal Ja's mechanical army, what's become of them now that he's gone?
Ah yes, about that...
At the time we suspect that Zoraal Ja passed, the king's authority appears to have been transferred to Gulool Ja.
You mean to say Gulool Ja is the new king!?
While a coronation is required to make it official, for the moment, the system recognizes him as his father's successor.
But...I don't want this. I don't want to be king.
It's not a decision you have to make right away. But given that the authority comes with command of the army, you can't give it up lightly either.
We can think on it together later, but for now, I want you to hold on to it. To what your father has left you...
...If you say so.
Um...are you alright, Lamaty'i?
Huh...
Ugh, what is this? Why can't I... Gah!
Despite everything that's happened─all the terrible things my brother did─I still don't know how to feel towards him... What's wrong with me?
You think so? I'll take your word for it...
For now, we have things under control. Why not return to Tuliyollal and rest up while the others handle the investigation?
You know, I think I'll do that. It'll be good to see how things are at home and catch up with Koana.
Hey, why don't the two of you come too?
But...won't everyone hate me?
Of course not. They might be a little unsure at first, but I'll set them straight.
Besides, I want to introduce you to Koana. As new family.
R-Really!?
Really! That is, if you're fine with it?
I am! I am!
Then let's be off! We'll head directly to the palace to see Koana.
Please have a good rest─you've earned it. I'll keep things low-key for a while myself.
You are returned!
Wait there, I'm coming down!
Where's Lamaty'i? What happened inside the dome?
So my brother is gone...
Yet the danger remains, and you must soon sally forth unto an unknown reality...
Hey! Koana!
Lamaty'i... Is this boy perhaps...?
This is Zoraal Ja's son, Gulool Ja.
I see. Time did flow differently inside the dome.
If he is our brother's child, then...
Gulool Ja, was it? My name is Koana, and I am Lamaty'i's brother.
You're her brother...?
You'll find none more dependable than Koana. He's family, and he'll take good care of you.
A pleasure to meet you, Gulool Ja.
A pleasure to meet you too, uh...Uncle Koana.
Well, I suppose I am your uncle...
But simply Koana will do.
You're all confused, and little wonder. Rest assured all will be explained in due course.
But for now, I want to make one thing clear.
Gulool Ja is his own person. He had no part in his father's crimes.
If you have anger towards Zoraal Ja you need to express, Koana and I will gladly hear you. But you will treat Gulool Ja as you would any child─with kindness.
