A pleasure to meet you, miss, and welcome to your new home at the Pendants.
Your room is ready, if you'd care to retire?
...You...?
I know you... You're the Warrior of Light from the Source!
What? Did you just... You can hear me!?
Oh, gods, how long has it been...?
...Aye...aye, that was what I called myself in your world... The “Warrior of Darkness.”
My real name is Ardbert. I used an alias in the Source. A daft one, looking back...
What? Did you just... You can hear me!?
Oh, gods, how long has it been...?
...“And who are you?” she says. An enemy not worth remembering, apparently...
My name is Ardbert. In the First, I was a Warrior of Light, but in the Source you knew me as the Warrior of Darkness.
If you recall my tale, it was my comrades and I who caused the Flood.
We thought our home doomed. And so we listened to the Ascians─let them guide us to the Source, and tried to hasten their godsdamned Ardor.
I remember when we fell, defeated by you and yours. I remember our audience with Minfilia─how she listened to our pleas, and returned our souls to the First.
The Flood was poised to swallow Norvrandt...
Minfilia and my friends, they...they surrendered what little they had left to hold it back. Just faded away...leaving me to bear witness.
Tell me, do you know the year? How much time has passed since we caused the Flood?
A hundred years... A hundred long years...
My hands find no purchase. My gestures catch no eye. And my pleas, be they whispered or screamed, reach not a single ear...
I am a shade, cursed to do naught but drift.
I feel as if I've been walking forever... I hardly noticed when my mind and body began to fray at the edges.
Then “bang,” my senses were sharp again. I felt like a fish being reeled in, and before I knew it, I found myself in this room.
Why is it that you can see me? What are you even doing here, come to that?
You were summoned to save the First?
A waste of time. This world is beyond saving─like those who try to save it.
Muddled as my mind may be, I've not forgotten that.
But if fate has brought me to you─the one person in this godsforsaken world who can see and hear me─then perhaps there is a reason I endured.
If I can find out why I was left behind, then maybe...maybe I can bring this journey of mine to an end...
Well. I'll be watching, Warrior of Light.
But do me a favor. Be careful out there. This world has had its fill of heroes.
Mistress Forename. The Exarch awaits you within.
Ah, how did you find your new quarters? I trust you were able to rest?
That is good to hear. Should you want for anything, pray let me know.
I...was not aware the room was haunted. And...you were rather tired... Well, should you receive another visitation, be sure to let me know.
Now, let us return to the subject of the Scions' whereabouts.
This map shows the lands of Norvrandt, the only area to be spared the Flood of Light.
The Crystarium is here, in the region known as Lakeland.
To the north is the faerie kingdom of Il Mheg. That is where you will find Urianger.
To the east lies the once-prosperous civilization of Rak'tika. Y'shtola is stationed there, in the heart of the forest.
Alas, neither location can be reached without considerable difficulty.
As such, I would suggest you first seek out one of the twins─each of whom is stationed but a short flight from the Crystarium.
Alphinaud is on Kholusia, an island off the western shore. It is home to a city called Eulmore, where the rich and privileged while away their days in idleness.
For his part in furthering our cause, Alphinaud journeyed there to meet with the citizenry and forge alliances. From what I hear, he has since kept himself busy gathering information around the main settlement.
Alisaie, meanwhile, traveled south to the arid wastes of Amh Araeng.
They lie upon the very edge of the inhabitable world, where the Flood of Light was halted. Those who dwell there live in constant fear of attack by the sin eaters.
In contrast to her brother, Alisaie felt that her energies would better be spent learning about the enemy. And thus she sells her services as a guard, both to hone her skills and gather information on our foe.
So, will it be Kholusia or Amh Araeng? It matters not which you choose to visit first.
Simply inform me once you have made your decision, and I will see to it that you are provided with a suitable mount.
Ah, but you must be wondering about Thancred. He has taken up with...a new companion, and is presently engaged as a wandering hunter of sin eaters.
Being ever on the move, his whereabouts are often difficult to ascertain, but I am certain your paths will cross ere long.
You will visit Alphinaud in Kholusia, then? Excellent.
As I mentioned, your destination is an island off the west coast, so you will need a mount capable of making the journey.
Here is a letter of introduction. Present it to Szem Djenmai, the Master of Beasts at Temenos Rookery, and he will take care of you.
When you see Alphinaud, be sure to pass on my warmest regards.
