Oh, thank the fates, y─ Look out!
My poor heart... Thank you, young miss.
Ah, there you are! In my haste, I lost my bearings... But I see you have the situation well in hand. Fine work!
Are you alright, madam?
Just a few bruises from where I fell. Nothing compared to what was in store for me before this brave soul came to my rescue.
I honestly thought I was done for. My feet are not as swift as they once were, and I knew there was no one left to hear me scream. Not that I let that stop me!
<sigh> I should probably leave my old house behind and queue up outside Eulmore with the rest of them.
Doubt those fancy lords and ladies would welcome an old crone like me... Still, even a shack near the gate has to be safer than staying here!
One would hope. Either way, I suggest you avoid wandering alone, lest you make the sin eaters' task any easier.
Thank you again. You saved my life. Now, I'm sure a strapping lass like you has little to fear, but I wouldn't linger long in this place. There's naught to be had here but cobwebs and memories.
'Tis as the lady says. Many in these parts have abandoned their homes to live in Eulmore's shadow.
Should the sin eaters descend upon this region, there are precious few with the strength to fight them off...
Speaking of which, what have you been told of these monsters?
A brief history, then...'Twas not long after the Flood swallowed the better part of the world that the sin eaters first appeared, some beastly, some beauteous.
Yet regardless of their form, all seem incapable of speech, and all are driven by the same insatiable appetite for mortal aether. They are predators─and we are their prey.
Kholusia suffers from far fewer attacks than most regions, but even so, the list of the sin eaters' victims grows longer by the day. A tragedy without end...
Still, we have won a small victory this time, at least. Now, shall we press on?
We need to return to where the road forks and follow the path that leads west...
That gate up ahead is known as the “Open Arms,” and Eulmore itself lies beyond.
This, meanwhile, is the aptly named “Gatetown.” The dwelling place of the many desperate souls who hope to be chosen to live in the city proper.
