Those new mascots are awfully adorable, aren't they? I've been trying to muster up the courage to speak with one, but...initiating conversation isn't exactly my forte.
O-Oh, hello there! You must be that new mascot that's been marching about. Some manner of imp, was it? I like your hat─er, head...thing.
Wh-What in the world does that even mean!? Mascots are supposed to be cute and cuddly, not cold and calculating!
Wh-What in the world does that even mean!? Mascots are supposed to be cute and cuddly, not cold and calculating!
How precious! I was a bit afraid to chat with you at first, but you're much friendlier than I imagined!
First Senor Sabotender, now you... Ahhh, would that I never had to leave the Saucer! I could spend the rest of my days surrounded by adorable creatures like you.
First Senor Sabotender, now you... Ahhh, would that I never had to leave the Saucer! I could spend the rest of my days surrounded by adorable creatures like you.
Ka-pa-paaa...
Ka-pa-paaa...
Ka-paaa...
Ka-paaa...
Ah, there you are. Loath as I am to admit it, my search for the one behind this event has yielded little success...
Regardless of my results, it's plain to see that the imps are well loved by all...but I cannot write an article on that fact alone. How did you fare, my honorary assistant?
Greetings, fair patrons, and apologies for the sudden intrusion─I am Godbert Manderville, proprietor and namesake of this fine establishment.
Oho! 'Tis a pleasure as always to see you at the Saucer, Forename.
The Godbert Manderville!? Never did I think I'd meet a member of the Syndicate face-to-face... Surely you of all people must know who proposed the idea for this event?
Your generous deeds this day have not gone unnoticed, so I believe an explanation is in order.
It was I who proposed the idea for these festivities, as a matter of fact.
Perhaps you are already aware, but we employ a voidsent known as Typhon here at the Gold Saucer. Summoned into this world by the Thaumaturges' Guild, he is a diligent soul who utilizes his formidable fungahs to our patrons' benefit.
'Twas not long after I hired Master Typhon that I became acquainted with a high-ranking member of the guild. Through him, I learned of a curious spell from ages past, known only as “Imp.”
True to its name, the spell transforms the target into the very beings you have espied marching about the Saucer.
Master Ultros is proficient in the very same spell—mayhap you fell victim to it during your encounter atop the Dragon's Neck. He oft refers to imps as his “buddies” and “pals,” in fact.
I found myself quite enamored with these adorable creatures, and sought to answer the questions that yet lingered in my mind: Where did the imps come from, and how did their spell fall into the hands of man?
I pored through what few resources were available on the subject, yet I could not find a definitive answer. Heartbreaking though it was, I was left with no choice but to leave the creatures' lineage shrouded in mystery.
Nevertheless, I could not allow their history to fade into obscurity. When it came time to decide the theme of our annual festivities, I crafted the impish attire based on my findings, and proposed a celebration in their honor.
You utilized these costumes not only to entertain, but to educate others as well... And with that, the full story is laid bare.
Indeed... Though I know not if such a conclusion will prove ideal for The Thavnairian Truth.
...I feel a story coming on! “Myth Made Manifest at the Gold Saucer: Thaumaturgical History Reveals Imps' Mystery”!
Hahaha... Yes! This is the scoop I seek!
It is as Master Manderville says. Much about these imps remains an enigma...but they have brought countless smiles to the Gold Saucer. Readers shall doubtless want to learn of their existence, as well as the event that brought these few facts to the fore.
Such passion and drive to shed light upon the unknown is a fascinating tale─one that I shall do my utmost to depict!
Ohoho! That's the spirit, lad. 'Twould be an honor to see our imps grace your publication's pages! I shall look forward to reading your account of it in the coming days.
This young man's story will doubtless bring all the more attention to the March of the Imps, so I must express my thanks in the spirit of the celebration...with a set of impish attire, of course!
You have my deepest gratitude as well, adventurer. Inspiration calls, and I must away to make these ideas a reality, but your contributions were vital to this discovery. You are more than deserving of reward.
A job well done, my friend. The festivities shall be underway for some time yet, so I hope you will not squander the opportunity to enjoy this moment of respite and march with our fellow imps!
When I heard that the Gold Saucer took a new approach to their annual celebration, I thought it best to report my findings and write something up before my rivals had the chance, but now that I've seen it for myself, I'm not quite sure where to begin...
Forename! Glad am I to find a familiar face among these halls. I am come on behalf of Lord Hien to investigate the creatures you know as water imps. In the Far East, we call them kappa, and they oft appear in our myths.
My lord was unusually intrigued by reports of the imps' appearance, and would not rest until he learned more of this phenomenon. Yet his position allows him little time for such trivial matters, and thus did I travel here in his stead.
Know you of the muscular imp that roams the Saucer? 'Twas no sooner after I arrived that he bestowed upon me this suit of attire. Perhaps I shall wear it again upon my return to Doma─my lord was eager to see these living legends up close.
Such intriguing creatures, these water imps. If I am ever fortunate enough to dream of them, I would invite them to our Hatching-tide festivities without delay.
Perhaps one day, they might even decipher our language and speak with us more candidly... I once welcomed a curious talking rabbit to our celebrations, and I would welcome talking imps with equal enthusiasm!
