Um, excuse me...
M-My name is Matsya, and I'm here to see Khalzahl...
Oh, it seems he's busy. I'll come back later, then...
If foreign vessels won't come to us, why not use our own to deliver the wares to them!?
It's not so simple, Khalzahl. And besides, everyone is in the same boat. Everyone.
Y-Yes? Can I help you...?
Ah, I remember seeing you back in the guild. You wanted to speak with Khalzahl, too, did you?
I'm Matsya, a fisherman of Akyaali─a nearby village.
I sell my catch to Khalzahl, who offers it to foreign merchants. But he hasn't bought anything for a while now.
When I heard that the consortium had been struggling, I became worried and decided to come and see him.
...Just as soon as he's free, anyway. He's a hardworking man, and I dare not disturb him.
Um...if I may ask, what is it that you do?
An adventurer, you say! And you travel the world, helping people...
Then...that must mean you're great at dealing with strangers! Please, won't you teach me to be like you?
You see, I've brought some fresh fish with me─the portion I couldn't preserve─and I want to sell them.
The problem is, I'm terrible with people. I've ever only dealt with Khalzahl, and I can't talk to customers without getting my trunk in a twist...
So please...as silly as it might sound, will you not peddle the fish in my stead, and show me how it's done?
If you're willing, please let me know, and we can begin at once!
You'll do it, then? Show me how to deal with customers? I'm in your debt!
Right, please try peddling my fish to...shall we say, three people here in Yedlihmad. I will observe you and learn!
To travel to unfamiliar places and speak with unfamiliar peoples... Your conversational skills must be astounding!
O-Oh, did you have other things you needed to do? In that case, I'll head back to the pier for now...
Ah, you're back! Shall we continue where we left off, then?
Folk here are rather...business-minded, for want of a better word, but at least they are welcoming of foreigners. In ordinary times, this harbor must overflow with visitors from all over the world.
'Tis a storehouse like any other, at first glance. Yet in contrast to its scale, there is a distinct lack of activity.
Seeing as there's dried fish, I wondered if there might be dried squid as well...
