Ding, ding! Correct!
Wh-What's going on!?
The ancient home of the Milalla people is recreated here in exacting detail thanks to the marvel of electrope. The scale alone has been adjusted in order to accommodate folk of all proportions.
Ah, but I have neglected to introduce myself. I am the guide for this facility, the Steps of the Speaker. It shall be my pleasure to assist you as you embark upon your educational journey.
There's even a guide? How considerate.
Alright, then. As we wander around, if there is something we do not understand, we'll be certain to ask you.
Bzzzt! Incorrect!
Visits to our facility take the form of a quizzed tour, so the correct answer is: follow the instructions of your guide. That's yours truly!
Sounds like a pain in the ass...
I'm sure it will be both enlightening and entertaining. Let's have them guide us.
Very good, madam! I have registered the four of you as visitors. Please proceed through yonder passageway to the chamber beyond!
The wall is illuminated! It's so beautiful!
Is that pattern a Milalla motif...?
Judging by the elaborate decoration, this was a place of import to the Milalla.
If I may have your attention!
You stand within a shrine of the Milalla, a migrant people who roamed until they found new lands to call their own.
According to folklore, they originally hailed from a paradise of eternal summer. Alas, they had no choice but to abandon it when a great calamity froze the very seas.
The Speaker, their spiritual leader, guided them to safety, and she is enshrined here with the sacred relic she wielded. In this place, they performed rituals dedicated to the dream that, one day, they might return to their ancestral home.
A sacred relic... That must be the key used to initiate interdimensional fusion.
Interdimensional fusion...? If such a wondrous power existed, I can only imagine what great feats it could be used to achieve!
Now then, it's time for a history quiz!
Ugh, here we go...
There are four braziers in this room, each of which is accompanied by a panel bearing a statement.
If you believe a statement is true, then you must light its brazier by operating the panel. Simple, yes?
Without further ado, please nominate a representative and begin!
If there are no objections, let us have Forename do the honors. Go on and take a look at the panels, my friend.
All the statements could be true, right? Or even false!? Gah, the suspense is killing me!
I daresay the panels in the previous chamber may also hold clues.
For a mechanical soldier to serve as guide, it seems safe to assume that Preservation was aware of the information presented here and had no objections to its dissemination.
