Greetings and welcome to Meghaduta. May I inquire after your business?
We are members of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, come at the invitation of His Excellency.
Ah, of course. We have been expecting you.
I will show you into the audience chamber, if you would please follow me.
...Are we the last to arrive? I hope we've not kept you waiting!
Not at all. Your comrade is feeling better, I trust?
Much better, thank you. Hannish remedies are certainly potent─in more ways than one.
One becomes accustomed to the taste, although I hope you never have cause to do so. Pray take your ease.
Full glad I am to see you all unharmed.
Valiant Scions. For your heroism, you have my boundless gratitude.
You cast down that dire tower and set free its hapless captives. You cleansed their souls of its corrupting influence.
No words of thanks will suffice. In place of platitudes, I offer a bounty of warding scales.
Pray accept your due reward, along with the goodwill of Radz-at-Han.
Alchemists throughout the land were put to work in the forging of your talismans. The finished ones have been collected, and now await you at the High Crucible of Al-Kimiya.
Present this letter when you are ready to take them into your possession.
We are humbled by your generosity. Know that the inventive wisdom of Radz-at-Han will be vital in restoring serenity to our star.
Every single one of those scales came from you, didn't they? You must still be in such pain...
'Tis of no moment. A mere annoyance compared to the dreadful suffering inflicted upon this land and its people.
Albeit brief, my involvement in the Dragonsong War afforded me a glimpse of the myriad sorrows which consumed both dragon and man.
Though you were half a world away, such tragedies as befell your kin must have affected you deeply.
And yet you chose to live among men.
In the age when that conflict first bloomed, my choice had already been made.
In some distant place, man slew dragon, and dragon slaughtered man. Yet no hate could I muster for those smiling faces which did look to me for guidance.
Not even my brother's righteous rage could rally me to his cause. I huddled here, secret and still, hoping against hope that which I had built would remain untouched by the chaos and carnage.
'Twould seem we share the same desire for peace, great Vrtra. To that end, I wonder if we might trouble you with another question.
The Telophoroi are intent on recreating the Final Days, an apocalyptic event which we know to predate the sundering of the star.
As the longest lived among us, know you aught of this terrible cataclysm?
Nay. When war and strife drove my sire from his home, he crossed the great expanse with only our unhatched eggs as company.
He alighted upon a shattered Source, its thirteen reflections long since scattered beyond the rift.
Of events preceding his arrival, he knoweth naught save that which Hydaelyn hath deigned to disclose.
I see... So again, 'tis the inscrutable Hydaelyn to whom we must look for answers.
Seek you to divine the will of this star? If so, I have a tale which may afford you some small comfort.
'Tis a story from my youth, many, many years ago... To my sire, I once posed the question, “Of all the stars in the sky, why didst thou settle upon this one?”
To which Midgardsormr did reply, “'Twas the last bastion of hope.”
He believed, so long as Hydaelyn endured, so too might dragonkind.
Solemn and portentous were his words. What deeper meaning they held, I could not─dared not─pursue. 'Tis a stone I've left unturned ever since.
Yet take you solace in the knowledge that, whatsoever Hydaelyn doth strive towards, 'tis an ideal which hath earned my sire's conviction.
Thank you, Vrtra. You've given us warm reassurance in a world gripped by cold uncertainty.
While I'm sure we all have a great many questions, I think it's time we collect the talismans and be on our way. Our fight against the Telophoroi is far from finished.
We must take our leave, but please do inform us if we can provide any further assistance.
Prithee, a moment.
There is one whom my sire hath judged worthy of honor and respect─the one known to men as Eorzea's champion. This hero of renown and rumor...'tis thee.
I knew it to be so. From man and dragon alike have I learned of thine exploits.
In accordance with the covenant he forged with Hydaelyn, the stewardship of this star hath ever been his purpose. Silence in the face of thine actions is the greatest sign of his approval.
I know of his clash with Omega, and the long slumber which was his price.
Yet even closed in sleep, my father's eyes are far from blind. He is watching over thee; watching over this world.
'Twas a revelation most pleasing that thou─a child of man─had gained Midgardsormr's trust. But alongside mine elation runneth a rivulet of dread.
For upon thy life's reel wind too many threads. Of fate. Power. Weal, enmeshed with woe.
Amidst this tangled knot, thou shalt know no rest. 'Tis an endless confluence of forces; a struggle without surcease.
More terrible still is the attrition wrought upon thy companions, as they are swept up in the storm of thine existence.
Take heart and protect them well. They will be your strength and your salvation. The hope thou wilt need come the end.
Even cowering behind my curtain, I know the suffering of the powerful. I have watched my siblings driven mad by loss.
Thus do I exhort thee to spare no effort to keep thy loved ones safe.
Ah, apologies. We hadn't meant to interrupt.
It's just that we do have a history of suddenly collapsing, and when you didn't follow us out...
'Tis I who must apologize. I have detained your champion overlong with idle chatter.
Go. At war's end, I pray I welcome thee back into my hall, where together with thy joyful comrades you may toast your triumph.
Our apologies again. I hope we didn't force you to conclude your conversation prematurely.
So, what were you and Vrtra talking about?
...Nothing? Very well, if you say so.
The others have gone ahead to the High Crucible. Let's catch up to them.
Like his sister Tiamat, Vrtra is possessed of a gentle soul. I'm glad they're on our side.
The attendant was kind enough to give me directions to the High Crucible. First, let us return to the mulberry orchard.
I understand the mulberries are for the silkworms. Grown a stone's throw away from the satrap's residence... It gives it the quintessential Thavnairian flair, don't you think?
From here, we're supposed to follow the path left and past the mulberries...
The word Yuj apparently means “bind” in the local tongue, and this district is so named because it connects all others in the city.
If we manage to come this far, we shouldn't have trouble finding the High Crucible─or so I was told.
Where the street turns, enter the door straight ahead then descend the steps...
I thought the Crystarium was confusing, but it doesn't compare to Radz-at-Han. The architecture and decorations make it even harder to get your bearings.
Anyway, let's see where this door takes us.
Whew, it seems we're on the right track.
And here is the aetheryte plaza. So far so good, and there isn't much further to go.
From here, we just need to cross to the other side of the hall, then pass through the larger of two doorways. The High Crucible lies beyond.
I suspect the others have already collected the warding scales. Come, let us join them.
You took your time. Got turned around, I take it?
Though this land hath been afforded a respite, in turmoil do many others languish still. Our work is far from finished.
Excellent. You're in time to hear the latest good news.
The Students have previously turned to Radz-at-Han's alchemists for help with the analysis of various artifacts.
That is how I became acquainted with Nidhana. I'm glad we could rescue her, and pray she makes a full recovery...
I'm quite well now, I assure you. As they say, the stronger the taste─and stranger the color─the more effective the remedy.
With my body trying to replenish the aether I spent, however, I'm feeling rather famished...
I think a sampling of the local delicacies is in order. Hamsa cuisine would be a good place to start, perhaps?
As I heard it, after you defeated Nidhogg, his scales found their way into the hands of the Firmament's artisans.
Steeped in power as they are, it's no surprise that they were coveted. Still, it is a strange legacy for the vengeful wyrm.
What an immense laboratory... How many such places were enlisted to help forge the warding scales, I wonder.
We're last, of course, but at least we found the place.
These are the talismans we were promised?
Yes, and I made a quick count: there are far more than we could have hoped for.
Enough to outfit an entire company of soldiers, in fact. Considering the involved process, that they were able to manufacture so many in such a short span of time is nothing short of a miracle.
Once we have distributed them to our allies in Eorzea and the Far East, we'll have a fighting chance to bring down the other spires─just as we did with the Tower of Zot.
Or, we could use them to invade Garlemald proper, and strike directly at the Telophoroi's base of operations...
Of course, we would need to consult with various Alliance leaders before such a drastic measure could even be contemplated.
To which end I could set out forthwith and present the idea to each of our allies in person.
Pray allow me to undertake some few of those journeys. I find myself restless, and in need of purposeful duties.
I can head eastward. Bozja and Dalmasca are just a short hop from here, and Doma's shinobi network should come in handy for passing on the word.
We shall share the burden, then.
Meanwhile, I think it best that you and the others take the talismans back to the Baldesion Annex. We must keep them safe and secure until we've decided upon a course of action.
Please, I must speak with you!
Nidhana!? You're awake!
Yes. When I spoke with the carer at my bedside, she told me that one of the Scions─a young woman─had cleansed me of the tower's corruption.
It seems I've been asleep ever since the treatment... But when I awoke and learned you were all still here, I knew I had to come.
As you said, Nidhana was captured only recently.
Such a brief exposure is swiftly cured, so I tended to her before we gathered at Meghaduta.
And I am truly grateful that you did! I cannot thank you enough...
All of you─for everything you've done. Destroying the tower, rescuing our people...you've saved Thavnair from an awful fate!
Yet who hath truly saved whom?
Due in no small part to thine inspirational courage, the alchemists were successful in reproducing warding scales of proven efficacy.
Replications of thy work now stand ready to travel across the seas, unto the hands of those who might wield them against this rising evil.
The talisman? Is this true!?
I was so groggy from sleep, I didn't even think to ask.
Our great work, sent across the seas...
It was worth it. It was all worth it!
Look at that! Its color is completely changed!
What do you have there...?
How unusual. I wonder if the effect is a reaction to akasa.
I'm afraid I'm not familiar with that term.
Akasa? It is one of the unseen energies defined by Hannish alchemical theory.
Though a gross oversimplification, some describe it as an essence influenced by feelings.
You imply that it is distinct from aether?
Foreign scholars often conflate the two, but we see them as separate concepts.
Aether is an energy which permeates the land. It exists within animals, objects, even the air we breathe, affecting all through which it flows.
Akasa, on the other hand, exists in a domain beyond our reach. A gift bestowed from on high─or torn from the heavens, in some traditions.
Akasa can neither be created, nor destroyed. It is beyond our power to purposefully alter or manipulate.
The only thing observed to influence it is an abundance of...I want to say “spiritual emotion.”
As a veteran of the battlefield, surely you've experienced moments of desperation or exaltation when you've transcended the usual limits of your capabilities?
That is a manifestation of akasa, the invisible essence harnessed by heart, mind, and unyielding spirit!
I really must hear more about this theory! Our disciplines are based entirely upon the idea that aether is the fundamental form of all energy.
I'm glad my haphazard explanation has piqued your interest.
But even for us, akasa is a somewhat abstract field of study. A lack of practical application lends itself poorly to formalized research.
Which is why my analysis of your flower can amount to little more than idle speculation. I am sorry...
Nonsense, you have nothing to be sorry for. Your insight is much appreciated!
Shall we depart for Sharlayan, then? I will see to it that the talismans arrive at the annex.
And we will be in touch once our talks are concluded. I suggest you rest while you can─from here onward, sleep is bound to be in short supply.
The last thing I remember before being absorbed into the tower was you rushing towards me...
I can only imagine the hardships you and yours must have had to overcome to rescue us.
No amount of words will suffice to express my gratitude, but I hope the flower's radiant glow says everything I cannot.
Ah, you are returned!
It's good to be back, and with the fruit of our labors safely in storage!
For now, we have but to wait for the others to return from their respective meetings with the Alliance leaders.
As Thancred suggested, you should get some rest in the meantime!
Your chamber is comfortable, I hope? If it's cold in there, just let me know─we have plenty of blankets to spare.
Welcome back, Forename! Krile has apprised me of your recent accomplishments. What an amazing feat to eliminate a tower, and pave the way to deal with the rest.
While it isn't much, I've changed your sheets and plumped up your pillow. After all, there's nothing like collapsing in a nice clean bed after completing a major malmstone, be it penning a thesis or defeating deiform entities!
So, would you like to take a look at your new and improved lodgings now?
Take heart and protect them well.
Good, you're here! You haven't eaten yet, have you?
We've brought quite a spread if you're interested. Only the finest dining from the Last Stand!
Lest you wonder, we invited Estinien as well.
But he refused with a rather grim-faced “No, thank you.” I suspect Sharlayan cuisine is not to his liking...
Oh, I don't know about that. Perhaps our lone wolf just needed some time apart.
What, to perfect his brooding stare!?
Next time, I'll drag him out by the ear, sit him down in front of a Sharlayan feast, and see that he eats every last bite.
An excellent idea. Of all people, warriors must take proper meals and rest if they are to maintain a healthy constitution.
Poor Estinien, beset on all sides.
Speaking of one's physical condition, Mistress Krile, I hear you recently played literal host to Hydaelyn Herself...
And what an experience that was. Tiring, yes, but no lasting harm done.
If anything, I should have liked to speak with Her longer... I've not felt a hint of Her presence since.
Hydaelyn instructed you to carry that flower, yes?
'Twill be your guide─“test and proof of your conviction.” And then something about seeking joy in darkness, was it?
Come to think of it... Isn't that what happened with Nidhana, back in Radz-at-Han?
The flower did seem to radiate a joyful glow. As if reflecting the elation we all felt. The relief of a people with renewed hope.
Indeed. And in turn, I felt buoyed by that radiance. 'Twas akin to spotting a beacon, and knowing we were on the right path.
I know we've not yet triumphed over the Telophoroi, or learned the full breadth of the Forum's plans...
But even within the midst of our struggles, we find small moments of joy to sustain us.
Rare and hard-won, perhaps. But it is this pursuit of happiness that gives us the strength to carry on, day after day...
Hey! That's mine!
To the swift, the spoils! Though I recall that levitation spell of yours was quick enough.
Only barely. And even at my best, I'm still too slow to wield it effectively in battle.
Mayhap I simply require more practice with this new magick...
You unearthed it from the depths of Noumenon, I presume?
Aye, and from a veritable mountain of arcane tomes, at that. 'Twas...necessary to facilitate my solitary explorations.
Or, to put it simply, you used it to sneak around the forbidden archives.
Ah, yes, well...after a fashion...
They're tall, you see...
The shelves─they're too tall for me! And I could hardly move the library's platforms without attracting attention now, could I!?
I'm not that ambitious. But 'tis pleasant to idle away the hours every once in a while.
One last cup of tea, then. Dickon said this brew helps relax the mind before bed...and gave us some leaves for free!
Why else did you think we were here? Surrender to thy fate, O champion!
Ah, enjoying the bracing cold, I see. Do you not own a warm coat or a cloak? Something in fur or fashioned from the skins of your enemies, or...? Well, never mind that.
I come to you once more as the bearer of bad news.
Our tower in Thavnair has been toppled, and I need not tell you by whom.
Given how many we have at our disposal, the loss of a single spire is hardly fatal to our plans. It does, however, slow the rate at which we siphon aether.
If they continue to preoccupy themselves with the towers, then all will be well. But should our foe prove bold enough to strike at us here, then the timing becomes...questionable.
Our foe is bold enough. Of that, I can assure you.
Yes, very well, then... I suppose I must prepare a proper welcome.
Honestly, talk of your nemesis is the only thing you seem to enjoy. Does nothing else spark your interest?
Hmm... No. All else is...equal.
Equally tedious. Equally disappointing. The world is a tepid bog into which we sink, too weak to thrash as the mud clings to our eyes and fills our throats till we blissfully choke.
But then came the light. Blinding and pure and hot─so very hot. Enough to set my soul aflame.
I basked in the afterglow...until the void yawned once more. And then I knew the muck would never claim me again. There was naught for me ahead, so I drew the curtain on all that had come before.
Burn, burn. Let the whole star burn. I will have my contest. I will reclaim my moment.
How wonderful that the emptiness of death has not dissuaded you from committing your life to its pursuit once more.
I don't know whether to envy you or pity you...
You question my disinterest, but what of yours? Despite your noisome antics, I sense you take little pleasure in this endeavor.
Mercy, my lord... Such pointed barbs from one who barely acknowledges my existence.
Nevertheless, you are mistaken, for I do find this part somewhat enjoyable.
You see, when I was mortal, I would always have the same dream.
It was a fragmented thing. Disjointed. All the faces incomplete. The setting, too, was unknown to me, so I thought it simply a fantasy of my sleeping mind.
Until one day, I realized it was showing me the truth─much as your dream of the Final Days enlightened you.
And soon, very soon, the rest of the world will see the truth of my dream too.
Yes, I think that is something we can both enjoy.
I hope you didn't mind us barging into your room for our late-night feast. For what it's worth, it did me a world of good to put our troubles to one side, if only for a moment.
Oh, there you are! Feeling refreshed, I hope?
I was about to make my way to the Studium, as it happens.
I wanted to try and speak with Scholarch Montichaigne and thank him for coming to our rescue in the Rostra.
As it turns out, he'd come here to see us following the hearing, only to find that we'd already departed for Thavnair. Knowing him, he was probably hoping to chew the cud with his former students.
Since we're still waiting for Y'shtola and the others, I thought now the perfect time to pay him a visit. Care to join me?
Then it's settled! The twins will be coming too, assuming Alphinaud can tear himself away from his new toys. I'll let you rally the troops while I go on ahead to Phenomenon.
Considering my recent impropriety, perhaps I should avoid showing my face around the Studium for a time...
That might be for the best. If the others should return, tell them we will not be long.
Unlike some of the Scions, I am not an alumni of the Studium. As such, I have no acquaintances there I am obliged to visit.
And while I would love nothing more than to pore over the many great tomes of Phenomenon, I fear my presence there would stir up more unwanted trouble...so! For now, I will be patient. Much as it pains me to do so.
If Father can master these fiendish contraptions, then so can I!
Heading out for a stroll?
The scholarch himself was here? In that case, what are we waiting for?
I too am eager to see him, though I somewhat dread the thought of visiting the Studium. I daresay our notoriety precedes us...
...Alphinaud of all people worrying over his reputation. And at our alma mater, no less! Will wonders never cease.
You'll understand soon enough. Off we go!
It feels like only yesterday that I first walked through these doors...
See that sculpted pitcher above the entrance? That's the mark of Thaliak, the Scholar. Bearer of the waters of knowledge. It's no exaggeration to say that Sharlayan itself is one enormous shrine to Him, and that's especially noticeable here in the Studium.
Here it is: Phenomenon. While I expect you made note of it before─one can hardly miss it─this is the first time you've been here on official business, correct?
While most of the space is taken up by the expansive auditoriums, it also houses numerous laboratories, testing grounds for experimental magicks, and a host of administrative offices and so forth.
As the center of what would later become the Studium, it was established to promote the study of aetherological phenomena, hence the name.
Though with aether being a fundamental aspect of nature, its scope expanded to include every conceivable facet of life and even the universe itself.
And then, in the four hundred and thirty-second year of the Sixth Astral Era, Phenomenon was decreed complete and the Studium officially opened as a place of learning.
With a long and storied history, it is without question the world's leading authority in aetherology, the arcane, the occult, astromancy, and countless other fields, standing proud as─
