Welcome to Mehryde's Meyhane! Please make yourself comfortable.
What? A guest of the satrap has collapsed from hunger?
Of course I would be happy to help. You need only tell me what you desire.
While that can certainly be arranged, I fear it would be too rich for someone coming out of a long slumber.
I would recommend something gentler on the stomach, like these apples here. They're sweet, juicy, and nutritious!
Ah yes, that would be perfect for someone coming out of a long slumber. Please take these apples with you, then. They've just come in, and I can guarantee their freshness.
While that might be perfect for an adventurer preparing to raid a treasure vault, I fear it would be too much for someone coming out of a long slumber.
I would recommend something gentler on the stomach, like these apples here. They've just come in, and I can guarantee their freshness.
Er, I'm afraid we don't serve that particular...delicacy...
If I may, I would recommend something gentle on the stomach, like these apples here. They've just come in, and I can guarantee their freshness.
Afterwards, once your guest feels better, she's welcome to sample whatever else we can provide. Just let me know!
Oh, this is a while ago now, but Professor Jalheen and Azahma were overjoyed to learn of your safe return from the treasure vault. And so they celebrated, and got just about every other patron involved.
Not in recent memory has the meyhane been so lively. It was all Mihleel and I could do to keep things orderly, but we too shared in their joy.
Ah, welcome back. Lest you worry, Mistress Nidhana has been taking good care of our guest.
Will you be joining them now?
Light...?
Is this...an inn? What happened? How did I get here?
There's no time. I must rejoin the battle. I must...
You're awake! Wonderful!
What is this!? Some sort of fiend!?
A fiend!? Where is it!? Where!?
Ack, but this is no time for jokes...
You're in the Source, my dear─the world next door, so to speak. The others brought you here after you collapsed.
I'll fetch them at once. Wait just a moment!
I took the liberty of arranging refreshments. I hope you find them as flavorful as they are invigorating.
This isn't what you promised. But I suppose aether is aether...
Wait, wait, wait! Don't tell me you don't know how to eat?
I took what I needed from it. What's the problem?
Where's the enjoyment in that? You're supposed to bite, to chew, to savor, and then swallow!
That's the way! So...did it taste good?
I...don't know.
The long years without eating may have dulled your sense of taste.
Well, we voidsent have no need for such when consuming others.
There are some who speak of “taste” when describing the quality and affinity of their prey's aether...
But I loathe the act. Taking aether in small amounts like this is one thing, but diluting my essence─diminishing myself? I'd sooner die.
And I have died. Countless times.
You have? Um...but what happens when you do?
Not much. After a while, you return, together with all your expended life force.
The important thing is to die where others won't devour you.
Amazing! My peers who study immortality and resurrection would be most interested in this phenomenon!
The question of taste aside, I am glad that you are able to partake of food like us. I daresay it agrees with your personal preferences.
That's true. You can keep giving me the same on a regular basis.
Very well. As my guest, I shall see that you do not want for comfort.
And one other thing...
We brought you to our world without your consent, and for that I apologize. If you wish it, we will return you to yours once you have regained your strength.
...It's fine. I have no reason to go back.
...Except for yours, perhaps. You intend to cross over again, I take it?
I do. I have yet to find my sister.
I want nothing more than to rush to her aid─to find this Golbez and free her from his clutches, if he still holds her captive.
Though if our recent experience has taught us anything, 'tis that the Thirteenth is more dangerous than we ever imagined. Caution must be our watchword.
Better late than never. In the short time you spent in our world, you left a trail of chaos in your wake.
You managed to return in one piece this time, but don't assume you'll be so lucky the next.
Rest assured we will make no assumptions and spare no preparation.
Speaking of which, while we rest and ready ourselves, I ask that you tell me more about your home.
In return, I will tell you about ours. I will show you my domain, Radz-at-Han.
Again a stranger in this strange land...
I have a condition. You must come too.
You have my thanks.
Ah, Mistress Surname. If you would follow me, I will show you to the guest chambers.
While at the High Crucible, I spoke with the alchemists about Zero. If you require any assistance, don't hesitate to let them know.
The Thirteenth was far colder than Thavnair. Let's hope Zero doesn't collapse again from the heat...
Should walking prove too taxing, there is always the Aethernet. She shouldn't have trouble making use of it.
'Twas my pleasure to show you the city when first you arrived. I shall enjoy doing the same for Zero.
This world is brimming with aether... I feel invigorated just standing here in the breeze.
Glad am I to hear that. So─is there any place in particular you wish to see?
Hmmm...
Perhaps where that food came from─apple, was it? While I don't expect I'll collapse again, it would be good to know where I can procure more if necessary.
Mehryde's Meyhane it is, then. I shall introduce you to the head waitress, Mihleel.
While bound to Zenos, I never saw vibrant cities like this. Only ruined places, not so different from the void.
Do as you will, but the condition was that you accompany me. I will return to the palace.
You're here. Good. We can set out again.
Do you recall the time we traveled together to the outpost? Should our tour take us outside the city, we must make use of hamsa again.
You have urgent business? Very well, we shall await you back at Meghaduta.
If you have concluded your business, then let us resume our tour.
This is the place? The air is different here, and I speak not of the heat.
There's a texture to it─a fullness─unlike that of elsewhere.
You smell the cooking, I believe. Hannish cuisine is quite fragrant─and delicious, I hope you will agree.
We could attempt to introduce Zero to Mehryde herself, but Mihleel is more likely to be available.
Welcome to Mehryde's Meyhane! Are you by yourself this evening?
Welcome to Mehryde's Meyhane!
Greetings, Mihleel, and may I introduce you to Zero. She is an esteemed guest, and I ask that you see to her meals during her stay.
Ah, yes, Mehryde has told me all! Please come to us whenever you're hungry. We'll look after you.
'Twas here that Forename obtained the apple.
While the palace cooks can prepare whatever you desire, 'tis certainly a quick and convenient food.
I'll remember it.
...Who are the ones there, moving their bodies about? Is it for some ritual related to eating?
The dancers? They move their bodies to bring pleasure to those who are watching.
'Tis a form of entertainment. Part of our culture.
How needlessly complicated. We voidsent prefer simpler pleasures.
That may be the way of it now, but your world, too, must have had such “complicated” diversions once.
...I don't remember.
Well, let us move on. I propose we visit Balshahn Bazaar, where goods the world over may be found.
Be it food, drinks, or dancers, we provide only the finest for your enjoyment!
What are all these things for? What do you do here?
This is a marketplace─where people buy and sell goods. Since its earliest days, Radz-at-Han has served as a trading hub, and here you'll find not only local products, but wares from distant lands.
I should mention that the vendors generally only accept payment in coin or tomestones. If there is aught you desire, I shall take care of it.
So that's what tomestones are for... Voidsent returned with them on occasion, but I never knew their purpose.
They struck me as useless trinkets, and I couldn't understand your obsession with them.
On that subject, there appeared to be no shops in the Thirteenth. Do you never make bargains in which possessions are exchanged?
We do, but rarely. We strike bargains when we want something done. If we desire an object, we kill whoever has it.
I see, I see. Your bargains may be likened to employment, I believe. I shall bear this in mind.
With that, let us continue on. I propose we head to the High Crucible of Al-Kimiya.
