Don't, please!
No...gods have mercy!
No...gods have mercy!
No...gods have mercy!
No...gods have mercy!
No...gods have mercy!
Oh no, no, no... Wh-What do we do? What do we do!?
So? Where are they!?
Did you find Mehvan and the child!?
Damn it all...
You have the child!? Let me see her!
She's so cold, Alphinaud...
The child is alert, and I see no wounds. And yet, she grows weaker...
My spells can do no more. What she needs is a change of clothes and a warm bed. We must hurry back!
Not now...!
Matsya, take the child!
Godsdammit, it appears we've made enough noise to be heard for malms around. More will be upon us ere long.
We make our stand here. Matsya, can you take her back to the village?
Th-The child? All...all by myself!? You can't be serious!
The beasts will follow you home unless we stop them here─and so we shall.
Be strong, Matsya! Her life is in your hands!
R-Right! I...I can do it!
I know you can! We'll keep them busy, Matsya. Go─quickly!
Steady... You know the way...
No, no! Not you, too...
Don't be afraid. Don't be afraid...
To live is to suffer. To drink of calamity...
'Tis a perilous path... Death...lurks in the dark...
N-No! I'm not afraid! I'm not afraid!
Do not avert your eyes. See...see your life for what it is...
See how the hardships make you strong. Every doubt reforged...
Every...agony...
Huh?
The divinity...?
...Nay. But one who would deliver thee just the same.
Please... You must save the child!
She is all that remains of Mehvan and Qerasaf. Please!
Well, well. Seems the babe's taken a liking to you.
Thou art strong, little one. Let us convey thee to thy home.
I spied our friends as we flew in...they appeared to be holding their own against the horde.
Right. That's the last of them. We should hurry and find Matsya...
Really? How can you be so sure?
What, like divine aid...?
A fine battle it must have been. Shame I missed it.
Estinien! It was you who came to Matsya's aid?
I was only along for the ride─Vrtra was the one who saw the boy was in need. The two are headed back to the village.
Where the wyrm will honor Ahewann's wishes and finally reveal himself to his people...
Perhaps so. Will you go and join them?
There's something I need to do first.
Mehvan gave her life so that her child might live. She deserves better than to be left to drift alone.
She deserves to be laid to rest beside her husband, at least. Will you help me?
...
Go. I will keep watch until your work is done.
We have done what we can. 'Tis for the villagers of Palaka's Stand to perform the funeral rites.
If nothing else, Mehvan and Qerasaf died as they lived─as themselves, and not as beasts. Their souls will find peace in the aetherial sea.
To think the day would come when even that smallest of solaces would be this comforting...
...May their souls be reunited one day. For that and so many other blessed possibilities, we must avert the Final Days.
You are ready, then?
In that case, let's head to Palaka's Stand. No doubt Vrtra is awaiting us.
Such power! I can scarcely believe it!
First hordes of beasts, now a mighty wyrm... Our world grows stranger by the day...
Rest easy, for all is well here.
Young Matsya returned with the babe safe in his arms. Owing to a warm bed, the girl hath already begun to regain her strength.
Less joyously received was word of the mother and father's fate, as well as that of their transformed neighbors...
How many children of Thavnair must we lose to this calamity?
Mothers and fathers, brothers and sisters, sons and daughters... Every death another void that can never be filled...
We who survive them must carry the weight of their memory, as we strive to regain a semblance of what we have lost.
Qerasaf and Mehvan's babe is a child of Thavnair as well. I thank you for returning her to us safe.
O, most great and merciful wyrm... I have not the words to express my gratitude...
They say that were it not for you...brave Matsya and the child would have been lost to us forever.
Long had I heard the rumors that a mighty dragon had forged a pact of friendship with the satrap, but never would I have expected such a kind and gentle soul.
Truth in part...but not in whole.
I am Vrtra, and for years uncounted hath this isle served as mine abode.
...An isle I have ruled over as satrap, with Ahewann as my loyal servant.
Are my ears to be believed!? You were the true satrap all along!?
Nidhana!? What are you doing here?
I heard from the Radiant that you had gone to help the people of Palaka's Stand in their time of need.
And so I and several of my colleagues from the Great Work came to offer our services.
The alchemists have already brewed up some potions for Mehvan's daughter!
But enough about us─you and your role are the far greater enigma!
If you were the true satrap all along, could it be that young Varshahn was...created...to serve as your emissary?
Thou didst suspect the boy was but a simulacrum?
A rumor has circulated for many years around the High Crucible that our most skilled alchemists were once commissioned by the satrap's family in secret to fashion a mammet indistinguishable from a living boy.
Looking at Varshahn with that knowledge...I simply put two and two together.
I was not alone in drawing this conclusion. But like me, they no doubt recognized that the satrap was using the simulacrum to work more closely with his people, and decided not to press the issue.
I had always assumed one of Ahewann's associates was manipulating it from afar─though the truth is indeed far more surprising!
It is an honor to meet you in the flesh, Master Vrtra. Pray allow me to express my gratitude.
If you had not believed in and given unto us your scales, I do not know where we would be. Thank you...from the bottom of my heart.
'Twas thou and thy fellow alchemists that fashioned the means to unmake the towers. You were the saviors not only of Radz-at-Han, but the star.
Far too kind you are, Master Vrtra...but the star yet wants for salvation. Once more will my colleagues and I commit the knowledge and resources at our disposal to the mission of aiding the people, in this their darkest hour.
'Twould seem this place is in good hands. I would return to see how Radz-at-Han fares. What will you do, Scions?
I worry for the survivors we met at Purusa. Shall we pay them a visit before making our way back?
In that case, might I ask a favor? Nothing too burdensome, I promise. This way!
Oh, Forename! Running through that dark jungle, there was a time when I thought all was lost! Had Master Vrtra and Estinien not arrived when they did...
...No. I must focus on the good. Mehvan's precious daughter is safe and sound, and that is all that matters.
Vrtra chose to reveal his identity to the villagers of Palaka's Stand before all others. A wise choice, considering the warm reception. Heh, he even seemed a little relieved...
It remains to be seen how the people of Radz-at-Han will take the news, but if this was any indication, he need not worry.
What a lovely aroma... I wonder what sort of spices those are?
Curious, isn't it? The burning sky is so ominous, yet the crackling flames here are somehow...calming.
Needs to simmer just a bit longer, I'd say...
In the meantime, I was hoping I might ask you a few questions. The red sky, these terrible beasts... What in the name of the Sisters is happening here in Thavnair?
Oh my, that's rather a lot to take in...
...It would seem the situation is even more grave than we suspected. Thank you, friend. My colleagues and I will use your knowledge to see if it can further our own research.
...And with that, here we are! A pot of piping hot chai, brewed from my own secret recipe of spices and tea leaves, together with hearty helpings of rich milk and purest sugar!
I've made enough for everyone in the village. Might I trouble you to deliver a few cups?
The drink has medicinal properties, then?
Not in the least! The ingredients are quite ordinary. It's so very tasty, though, and has a way of lifting the spirits.
The spicy aroma and distinctive sweetness of chai is a simple, everyday pleasure on our island. Sometimes the best medicine is the simplest.
A lovely sentiment, Nidhana. By all means, allow us to assist.
While you lot distribute hot beverages, I'll do a sweep for errant beasts to slay─a far less arduous task, no doubt. When you've finished, look for me at the Wakeful Torana.
I would be most obliged if you could deliver a few cups of chai to the villagers. I am certain it will do much to soothe their aching bodies and heavy hearts.
The aroma of that chai truly is irresistible... Do you suppose Nidhana would mind if I helped myself to a cup?
I must remain calm. I must find my inner peace. Breathe in... Breathe out.
I heard that the survivors we met at the temple have all returned safely. The crisis may not have passed, but being home and among friends should do much to ease their spirits.
