I am so, so sorry about this!
M-Madam Memeja! If I'm not mistaken, was it not Master Gegeruju himself who invited you out to Costa del Sol?
Yes, I traveled all the way from Ul'dah at the summons of my friend Gegeruju. Naturally, I couldn't bear the thought of my dear pets missing out on the fun and festivities, so I brought them along with me.
Not for a moment did I ever think they would act out like this! You have my deepest apologies!
They were perfect angels when we stopped in to see Gegeruju. He even gave them treats!
But the moment I stepped away for a drink, they went mad, and poor Gegeruju couldn't rein them in!
By the time I got back, they were gone... I swear to you, this has never happened before... <sob>
Well, that would certainly explain how a cactuar ended up in La Noscea. Regardless, if your pets pose a danger to the faire-goers, we may have to subdue them by force.
No! Please! I've raised them since they were pups─they'd never hurt a fly! <sob>
I don't fancy the prospect myself, but what other option is there? Given that the Moonfire Faire would have no venue were it not for Master Gegeruju, I'd obviously prefer if we didn't upset a dear friend of his.
Yes, termination should be a last resort. Let us first attempt to capture them.
A sensible plan. Should things turn violent, it would only frighten the attendees. This calls for a more subtle approach─just the three of us, perhaps?
Indeed. I would see this situation sorted swiftly that we might return to the faire.
If we work quickly, we may manage to find it before it escapes the bounds of Costa del Sol. Thus I propose we split up. Forename, my friend, will you search the west side of the island?
They're gone, they're gone, they're gone! My babies are GONE!
Worry not, my friend─I have this area well in hand. You should take your search westward!
Where could it have gone? You'd think a cavorting cactuar would be hard to miss here in La Noscea...
P'obyano told me a cactuar is on the loose. Sorry for the trouble─can I count on you to handle it?
Did you find something!?
It appears shehe did. But how are we going to capture it?
I've never seen a cactuar look so dangerous. Is it just me, or is it radiating an aura of pure malice?
I've never seen the poor thing like this, either! Come to think of it, Gegeruju told me it seemed to him as though they were possessed!
In that case, perhaps the aura is an evil spirit. If only we could purify it somehow...
Of course! In the Far East, they use uchiwa to ward off evil spirits, right? Maybe our festival fans would work!
In that case, allow me to do the honors!
Evil spirit, begone! Uchiwasshoi!
Yes! Well, that was easy. Shall we head back for drinks?
Erm... Terribly sorry to interject, but I think there's been a misunderstanding.
That's only one of my dear cactuars. I'm still missing the other six!
I do appreciate you finding Cacty, of course, but I'm worried about Cactilo, and Cactina, and Cactistopher, and─
Wait, so when you said “pets”─you brought seven cactuars to La Noscea!?
It is concerning, then, that we scoured every inch of the island and only found one. It appears we will have to take our search to the mainland.
Very well! Let us take up our uchiwa and find these cactuars, that we might ease them of their torment!
Oh, I'm glad to have Cacty back, and hale of mind to boot! Those fans are sure to work their magic on the rest of my dearies!
Six more? Uggghhh...
P'obyano told me more cactuars are on the loose. Sorry for the trouble─can I count on you to handle it?
I take it you're ready to begin? In that case, let us review our objective.
First, we must seek out these cactuars. As soon as one is located, placate it with a gust from your uchiwa, then bring it back here. You, my friend, are in charge of searching the southwestern cliffside.
Please, go and find the rest of my dearies! I'll stay here and keep a firm eye on Cacty─you have my word!
Nothing over here. Could you check a little further south?
Elusive little blighters...
Elusive little blighters...
Elusive little blighters...
Elusive little blighters...
Elusive little blighters...
Elusive little blighters...
Elusive little blighters...
You've all done such a great job bringing my dearies back safe and sound!
I only pray we managed to find them all.
Welcome back. I don't suppose you've found any cactuars?
And that brings us to seven. Excellent! We're done!
And now that that's over with, I think I'll grab myself a drink and find a nice vantage point. Preferably somewhere in the shade.
Oh, take me with you! I've been dying for a drink!
At last, the crisis is well and truly averted. Now I can return my focus to what matters most: ensuring a spectacular time is had by all! Seeing as Haermaga still needs a status report, could I ask you to see to that?
With those pesky cactuars back under control, it is time I livened things up around here. Would you be so kind as to relay the glad tidings to Haermaga?
Hee hee! Oh, what a relief that my pets have returned. Isn't that right, Cactania?
A refreshing breeze, a clear view of the cactuars... Yes, I think this area will do nicely.
Welcome back, Forename. It seems you had the cactuar crisis well in hand. You've done your part to keep the peace, and for that, I thank you.
Now, what's this I hear about a “malicious aura”? Efficacy of the uchiwa aside, I'd rather like to get to the bottom of this, lest we suffer the same problem next year.
I just wanted to report that the pet cactuars are resting safely away from the main festivities. I asked another chaperone to keep an eye on them.
I cannot apologize enough for the trouble I caused.
Yes, well, I am glad to have this matter settled quietly. My lovely ladies were quite frightened.
That being said, speaking as one who has seen his share of dancers, your pets have star potential, my dear Memeja.
Truly!? Perhaps I should have them formally trained!
You're not seriously going to encourage that behavior, are you!? Lest you forget, it was pure coincidence that we found a peaceable solution through the use of our uchiwa. Were something like this to happen again, that luck may not hold!
Surely you don't mean─I-I've learned my lesson, I swear it! As soon as we're home, I'll ensure they're trained to stay at my side at all times!
That's all I ask. Incidentally, did you notice anything that might have served as the catalyst to their cavorting?
No, I'm afraid not. I was away at the time, you see.
I thought it quite strange myself. One moment they were downing their wine like sailors, and the next, it was as though they were possessed by some manner of wicked spirit!
They were...drinking wine, milord?
And what a fine vintage it was! I was delighted to be in like-minded company. Oh, the great conversation we could have had, if only they could speak...
Memeja, I can't believe I'm asking this, but is wine safe for cactuars?
How should I know? I've only ever given them the finest spring water from the mountains of Coerthas, myself!
Pah! They barely had a cupful each. And besides, it's not like I poured the stuff down their throats, did I?
Alright, look─perhaps sharing a bottle wasn't the best of ideas, but how was I to know they couldn't hold their drink!?
Personally, I'm just glad the mystery's been put to rest. And seeing as Memeja's learned her lesson, I daresay we won't be seeing a repeat of this incident.
Well, just in case someone else gives wine to some other cactuars, I'll be sure to let the chaperone team know to reach for an uchiwa rather than a weapon.
That would be much appreciated, P'obyano. Now, let us return to the festival. The Adventurers' Guild won't promote itself, you know!
As for you, Forename─on behalf of the entire chaperone team, I thank you. Enjoy the remainder of the event, and don't be a stranger, alright?
Glad to see that things have settled back into the usual rhythm around here. You'll be sticking around, I hope? The fun's only just begun!
With the cactuar crisis under control, the festival is proceeding apace. Enjoy yourself, my friend! If you have yet to attempt the Eorzean Nimble Warrior course, I highly recommend it!
I have to admit, I'm starting to come around on these cactuars. It's not my fault they're cute!
It truly warms my heart to see my pets looking so happy. I'll have to vacation here again sometime─perhaps I'll even bring my spriggans!
Pudding, pudding, firm and cold...♪Pudding worth its weight in gold...♪dam
Hm? You're an adventurer, by the looks of you... Perhaps you could assist me.
I am Kipih Jakkya, reporter for Gridania's leading tabloid, The Raven, and I'm in need of help. Pray hear me out.
Oh, if it isn't Forename! It's always a pleasure, my friend.
And how fortuitous that you should appear now, just when I'm in need of help again. Pray hear me out.
You see, my brother recently wrote saying that he wished to meet me in Ul'dah during the Rising celebration. However, the appointed hour has come and gone, but I've seen neither hide nor hair of him.
I've checked all the likely places in the city to no avail, and am beginning to worry. If it isn't too much trouble, may I ask you to help me find him?
I'm in your debt!
Now, my brother is a youth of sixteen by the name of Nhagi. He recently became an adventurer─something he had aspired to since he was little.
Being an adventurer yourself, perhaps you know of him if not crossed paths?
Aye, well, it would be too much of a coincidence, I suppose... At any rate, if he isn't in the city, chances are he went outside on some business.
Aye, well, it would be too much of a coincidence, I suppose... At any rate, if he isn't in the city, chances are he went outside on some business.
Not only did you meet him, you helped him on his way, you say? What an amazing coincidence!
That being said, it doesn't necessarily mean you would know where he is now... If he isn't in the city, though, chances are he went outside on some business.
To begin with, I propose we split up and make inquiries in case someone has seen him.
If you could focus on this area, I shall speak with those in the Quicksand.
Afterwards, let us reconvene by the entrance to the tavern.
