And what have we here...?
Though you look like a person, you have the ears and tail of a beast... I assume you are a familiar like Meteion. Is there something you need?
Though you look like a person, you have the horns and scales of a beast... I assume you are a familiar like Meteion. Is there something you need?
This is Forename. Could you teach her about Elpis?
Ah, a newly arrived familiar, is she? Very well, I should be glad to introduce our fair facility to her.
As you know, it is mankind's duty to make the star a better place. As part of this duty, we employ creation magicks to bring forth new life.
However, we cannot simply release our works into the world, for it would lead to chaos.
No, any and all life-forms must undergo extensive testing to determine their fitness to exist. Testing which is conducted here in Elpis.
Every candidate is subjected to rigorous study, in which we identify their properties, surmise what habitats might be suitable, and speculate as to the effects they may have on the environment and other species.
Should it be judged a beneficial addition to the star, it will be allowed to take its place in the world.
The two of you, too, were created with the hope of making the star a better place. So heed your masters well and be good, do you hear?
We will, Memnon, we will. Thanks for the lesson!
You had a turn. Now I get a turn!
Where did you come from?
Hmmm, then I probably don't know it. I don't know much about other places.
Th-There's such a place? I had no idea...
Crys...tarium? I've never heard of it.
But this place is important to you. I can feel it.
Oh, my power! I haven't told you about it.
A creation. Let's find a creation. One not being watched. Then I'll explain my power!
Let's find a creation. One not being watched. Then I'll explain my power!
The desire to learn is a good thing. I wish you well in your endeavors, my dear familiar.
...Spriggans? What are spriggans?
Oh no, we call them oreiai. If there's many. If it's just one, we say oreias!
Though they're cute, they can be naughty.
Sometimes, they run off with concept crystals. And Hermes has to run after them!
