Impressive, is it not? 'Twas slain by my boy.
We were childhood friends, he and I, before he fell and returned. A master of the bow. It is good to see that he retains his skill.
Ah, Forename. You have completed your inquiries?
Aye, it is as she said. They believe with every fiber of their being that their bravest warriors will be reborn.
As for me, I observed some of their warriors at practice. They are as formidable as the Oronir, perhaps more, and their weapons are their equal as well.
Yet while they do not lack in skill and resources, 'tis plain to see that their numbers are inferior...
This has been an educational experience, to say the least...
Yet everything we have learned is common knowledge to the people of the Steppe. 'Twill not be enough to earn our comrades their freedom.
Naught less than the Dotharl's plans for the Naadam will suffice, I fear.
Well, I have never been one for skulking about. I will go to Sadu and see what secrets I can prise from her lips!
The spies return. And they have learned naught.
Mayhap so, but no longer! Though you hide it well, I know you have devised some manner of cunning stratagem for the Naadam! Out with it, I say!
We are what you see, Doman. We are Dotharl.
Others rely on tricks and traps. Subterfuge. Lies. We have need of naught but our own strength. We meet the enemy in battle and kill him.
That is why I cared not what you did from the first. There is naught for you to learn. Tell your masters to meet us on the field, and make ready to ride with their ancestors.
...Your confidence is plain, as is your strength.
Yet you are not the most prosperous of tribes. The Mol you mock are few, but so too are you. Why?
...Though a glorious death is to be celebrated, it is yet death.
While we kill many, many are killed in turn. In the wake of our battles, the soil drinks deep of the blood of the fallen, their bodies piled high.
Not all are born again. Only the bravest. Yet one cannot return unless there is a vessel to inherit the soul, and if warriors die ere they birth children, then that is that.
Even the brave warrior who finds a vessel will for many years remain a shadow of his former self. It falls to his elders to endure until he is ready to accept his responsibilities.
Ever will we meet our enemies in battle without fear. Such is our way, even when our numbers dwindle. If we die, so be it─but know that we fight to live, not to die.
Dotharl train and make ready for the day─but they do not rush to meet it. Not until we have done our duty.
Sadu Khatun. Geser's body has been given to the sands.
Then our part is done. Rest, warrior. The Naadam draws near, and you will need your strength.
If you intend to fight in the Naadam, you should return to the Mol and make ready. But know that when next we meet, you and yours will die. ...Or you could fight for us and live. Think on it, travelers.
...We shall. But if you would permit me a final question ere we part...where is this place that Geser has been lain to rest?
Though I knew him not, I was there at his end. I wish to say a few words.
Rites for the flesh? I have heard of this. Madness, I say, for his body is of the earth now. He will not hear you.
But you may speak to the sands, if that is your will. They lie to the west. Make haste, for the gedan may already have caught his scent.
My apologies, Forename. This will take but a moment.
Left for the vultures... It seems an insult to the man.
But the soul lives on, they say...these bodies no more than empty husks returning to the earth. Seen through those eyes, I suppose the sightis almost comforting.
Pardon me.
When first I heard the tales, I could not help but scoff. “Another queer tribe,” I thought, “with still queerer customs.” Yet having borne witness to their rites, I cannot deny there is a certain logic to it all.
A samurai will die for his lord without hesitation or regret.But this is not because he delights in such sacrifice.
It is because he has faith that his death will serve a higher purpose. There is an awakening in that instant, when the heart sings and the blood burns, and his soul...his soul finds peace.
There is comfort in that...
Nay, we dare not permit ourselves that luxury, my friend, tempting though it may be. Not while our loved ones yet remain in chains!
Well, then. We must all be on our way─even Geser.
Let us return to the Dawn Throne, and pray that our tale is enough to satisfy our “most radiant” taskmaster.
Let us return to the Dawn Throne, and pray that our tale is enough to satisfy our “most radiant” taskmaster.
Well, if there is a way out, I can't see it. Shame we didn't learn much before they locked us up...
'Tis little wonder the Oronir won the last Naadam.These people leave naught to chance.
Hien...I've had something on my mind for a while, and now...
In Ala Mhigo, where I was born, I found it strange that for all the people who supported the Resistance, there were just as many who didn't.
But then we came to this part of the world, and met with the Confederacy and lots of ordinary Domans, and almost every single one of them seemed content to just put up with things, no matter how bad they got.
They─they all had their reasons, of course, and it's not like I don't understand them, but...the thought of it made me so angry. After everything they'd been through, everything the Empire had done to them, how could they not rise up? How could they not fight back?
...People are pragmatic creatures at heart.
They hold on to hope only until they taste true hardship. Then comes fear and regret. Safer not to dream, they conclude at last.
For even should a day go by without some new disappointment, the next will only bring more of the same. And so they choose the more sensible option...
They learn to abide the indignities and injustices, the pain and the shame─to accept them as normal. Such is the lot of most men. One cannot expect to spur them to action at a moment's notice.
But if one who has known their pain can convince them to strive for something greater, and rekindle the fire in their hearts...then they will remember what they have lost. And they will rise.
I had someone like that once. I didn't know who I was or who I wanted to be, and...he risked his life to show me the way.
Then honor him by doing the same for others─with all your might and main!
You know, when my homeland fell twenty-five years past, I was still in my mother's womb. Never have I known a free Doma!
But my father did, as did many of my fallen comrades.As do many of my people now.
It may be no more than a dream to me, but if I do not chase it, then who will?
...The way you carry it all. You're just the same.
Hm? ...As you?
Oh, no, not me! Definitely not me. I meant the Warrior of Light. Out there, somewhere, doing what needs to be done...
I won't have you put me to shame any longer... I'm going to seize the future I want with my own two hands!
You are ready to depart, I trust? Good. Then let us away.
All that you have seen and heard. Your knowledge. I would have it.
...No secret stratagems, you say. That is well. I expected as much.
The Dotharl are not schemers. They live only for war─for the contest of strength and will. They are fierce, aye, and to face one is to court death.
“Meet us on the field, and make ready to ride with your ancestors.” Such were the words of their khatun, Sadu.
Speak not that devil's name in the presence of the most radiant!
You bade us tell you of the Dotharl, yet you will not hear the name of their leader?
After the last Naadam, she gave great offense.
The most radiant brother called to him the women of the Steppe, that he might look into their eyes and see if Nhaama looked back.
But that gedan, that feral udgan! She spat curses and called forth flames! She scorched the soil and refused to present herself!
Three days and nights had we fought to claim the Dawn Throne, and still she shows Brother Magnai such disrespect! Such defiance! By rights should she pay with her life!
Speak not another word, Baatu, or you will pay with yours.
Her words are air, as the Domans say. However, they are proof of your service to the Sun.
Go and fetch the others from their cells.
My lord, Lyse, you are unharmed?
Thanks to you and Forename. We are free to return to Mol Iloh, I take it?
By your deeds have you proven yourselves to be warriors brave and true.
You may return to the Mol and make ready for the Naadam...on one condition.
To fight in the Naadam is to be bound by it. Swear, here and now, to abide by the law of the Steppe. To accept the supreme authority of the khagan, whomsoever it may be.
We swear!
Well done, my friends. I knew you would not fail.
I should be glad to hear of your experiences with the Dotharl, but as time is of the essence, let us converse en route.
Come, come─Cirina and the others are waiting!
Thank the gods you are all right! When you failed to return, I feared the worst.
But here you are, hale and whole! And you survived Bardam's Mettle!
Blessed are we to have you as allies. With your strength, we may have a chance...
My friends. We are come to the final day of the Tsagaan Sar. To the Naadam.
The battle will commence with the rising of the sun. The Gharl will scatter the soil, and the Steppe will be unbound.
A great ovoo will erupt from the earth and call for a new khagan. All will converge upon the light, and the warrior who claims it will win the day.
Precious little time remains. Pray use it to prepare for the battle.
Many of the young ones have never taken part in a Naadam. They are nervous. Perhaps you might favor them with some few words? It would do much to ease their fears...
