Your Grace.
I fear that not even mine own chambers shall remain private for long.
Has the situation grown so grim?
Ever since he proposed the Carteneau Reclamation Bill, Teledji Adeledji has risen to greater prominence upon the backs of impoverished refugees.
The Monetarists were ever united in their pursuit of profit, but the man's actions have torn a rift in their ranks. They snap at each other as rabid dogs.
Yet now is not the time to be bickering among ourselves.
If this bickering is a threat to law and order, might you not have grounds to dissolve the Syndicate?
Would that the solution were so simple, Admiral. Alas, my moving to dissolve the Syndicate is certain to spark outrage among the influential merchant class, whom the cabal represents.
This would serve to exacerbate the current unrest, and peace would slip still further away.
Be they rich or poor, natives or refugees, all who reside in Ul'dah have a right to pursue happiness. It is the duty of a ruler to protect this right.
If I am to perform my duty, I must needs tread warily. It would not do to make enemies heedlessly.
Were Lord Lolorito here, he would doubtless say that I have my head in the clouds.
A ruler is required to take a wide view. Try as we might to cater to all needs, some will inevitably be overlooked. As such, there shall ever be citizens who feel aggrieved. It cannot be helped.
But as you have informed us, the Monetarists take no view but their own. They hunger for power while the masses starve.
In the absence of a common cause, it seems beyond any one individual to make Ul'dah whole.
And the presence of a Garlean agent within the Immortal Flames only makes matters worse.
Even accounting for Ul'dah's historic reliance upon mercenaries, such a grievous breach of security is unprecedented. I fear this business will provide the Monetarists with a rod to beat Raubahn.
Eorzea can ill afford for the Immortal Flames to be dampened now. Ere long, the Garleans will turn their ravenous gaze toward our lands once more. If we are to resist their might, our nations must stand together.
Yet for this to happen, our nations must be whole. Can naught be done to improve the situation in Ul'dah?
The true wealth of Ul'dah lies in the health, happiness, and hopes of her citizens. Alas, the citizens shall never know these things so long as their lives are ruled by the ambitions of the few.
The Monetarists claim to represent the best interests of the people, but in sooth they desire only to manipulate them for their own selfish ends.
For the government to serve the people, it must be formed of the people.
For Ul'dah to move forward, it is not only the Syndicate that must be dissolved.
Nay... You jest...
My friends─it was for no other reason than to make known to you mine intent that I requested your presence here.
When I make my declaration to the people, chaos shall inevitably ensue.
As the last monarch in the line of Ul, I make unto you this request.
Help Raubahn to preserve order, and protect the people. Forsake them, and you forsake yourselves, for a strong Eorzea will ever have need of a strong Ul'dah.
Your Grace... Are you certain of this?
There is no other way.
When the time is ripe, the nation shall become a true republic. Both Royalists and Monetarists shall cease to be.
Ul'dah will no longer belong to kings or queens or merchant princes, but to her people.
Raubahn... Forgive me for casting aside all that you have toiled for in my name...
Beyond this gesture, I am powerless to help my subjects.
I am most eager to address the Ascian threat. However, we dare not neglect our other pressing concerns.
We both know full well that Saint Shiva will not be the last primal we face...and our relationship with Ishgard is still tenuous at best.
To think that the resolution of the primal threat was once the sole priority of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn. Some days I wonder if it was wise for us to take on so many other responsibilities.
Lest you forget, Antecedent, the Scions need not shoulder the burden alone. Were not the Crystal Braves established for this very reason?
True, we are presented with a multitude of problems. However, we have all the resources we need to address them in turn.
Forename, in particular, is ever a steadying hand, who I trust will continue to support the Braves.
To what do we owe the pleasure? Have there been further developments regarding the situation in Ul'dah?
As expected, the Immortal Flames have been struggling to cope with the revelation that one of their highest-ranking officers was a Garlean agent.
Suffice it to say, Teledji Adeledji and his Monetarist ilk have wasted no time in attempting to turn the situation to their advantage. Coupled with ongoing unrest, the Flames are finding themselves hard-pressed.
Plainly, General Raubahn needs our help, and I will direct the Crystal Braves to offer what support they can.
If I am to stay abreast of the latest developments and issue effective orders, however, I cannot afford to waste time traveling back and forth.
And so, for the foreseeable future, I think it would be for the best if I were to remain in Ul'dah─unless you have an objection?
None whatsoever. We have matters here well in hand.
Moenbryda's research is proceeding as planned?
So she tells me, though I am not familiar with the details.
Urianger is poring over his tomes at the Waking Sands, and the others are contributing in their own ways.
Alas, the key problem─how to form an aetherial blade at will─remains unsolved. Nevertheless, it is only a matter of time.
Forename, while we focus on that task, mayhap you could assist Alphinaud and his Braves with theirs?
It would do much to restore faith in the Immortal Flames if the Warrior of Light was seen working on their behalf.
Never forget that your esteemed status allows you to act in ways that those more tightly bound to organizations and nations cannot. As ever, I implore you to do so.
Not that your response was ever in doubt, but I humbly thank you once more for aiding our cause.
Now then, there are preparations I must attend to before my departure, such as receiving Riol's latest report.
He has proven to be quite skilled at gathering information others wish kept secret, hence why I placed him under my direct command and ordered him to investigate the Ul'dahn riots.
When you are finished here, join me outside. Depending on what he has to say, I may soon have a favor to ask.
If there are any developments on our front, I shall inform you at once in the usual fashion.
Pleasure as always, Forename. You'll be escortin' the commander to Ul'dah, I take it?
Actually, I had another task in mind for her.
If you would be so kind as to repeat your report for her benefit?
Right, then.
Me an' mine've been makin' inquiries into the source o' the weapons what found their ways into refugee hands a ways back.
So happens we caught wind o' somethin' promisin': a rather large purchase o' sharp an' pointy things by a black marketeer holed up near Highbridge.
I doubt that this man would have secured such a quantity of weapons if he did not already have clients waiting─clients that, for whatever reason, would prefer for this transaction to remain secret.
Brings to mind that merchant what caught an arrow while talkin' to Forename, don't it? Generous fellow, he was, dolin' out swords an' spears to the downtrodden an' disgruntled.
Which isn't to say that these clients have the same mischief in mind...but if ye want to be sure, might be prudent to intervene before they collect their goods, savvy?
Seizing the weapons before they fall into the wrong hands would be for the best. However, if we strike at the appointed hour, we might capture the black marketeer as well as his clients. What say you, Forename?
Then it is settled. Rendezvous with Captain Ilberd at Highbridge and intervene when the exchange takes place.
Now then, if you would excuse me, I must leave for Ul'dah. I expect good tidings.
Ah, Forename. My scouts have been keeping a close eye on the black marketeer, and it would seem that his guests have arrived.
It would also seem that he has hired more than a few men to stand guard─common thugs of no consequence, but they nevertheless pose a threat.
Even so, I feel compelled to apologize. This is far beneath a woman of your standing, and Commander Leveilleur needn't have dispatched you hither...
But powerful men ever have need of loyal, able-bodied friends. Having found one in you, 'tis only natural that he would come to rely upon you without hesitation.
Now then, we should make for the Burning Wall without delay and secure those weapons.
The 1st Unit will ensure that the clients do not escape. With me, Forename.
I spy the one man, but there are sure to be others...
I've a plan. While you approach the sentry and create a distraction, my men and I will slip past and catch the black marketeer unawares.
Once you've disposed of the thugs, wait for us outside the tunnel entrance. Any questions? Then let us be off. Good luck, my friend.
