So this is the adventurer I've been reading about in the field reports.
I am Merlwyb Bloefhiswyn, Admiral of Limsa Lominsa.
On behalf of my people, I bid you thanks for the deeds you have done this day.
A token of our gratitude. What worth is high regard without just reward, after all? Ha!
Since you first set foot in our city, my good friend Baderon and Commodore Reyner have taken turns at regaling me with tales of your exploits.
Safe to say, they left an impression. Join me at the coming banquet.
A seat of honor at the celebratory feast is the least I can offer the man who foiled the Sahagin.
A seat at the feast!
Oh, and don't be late.
Your fellow guests will be eager to take the measure of their newest hero, and some do not take kindly to being kept waiting. Till then, may you walk in the light of the Crystal.
I am not sure you understand just how unusual it is for the Admiral to invite an adventurer to a state banquet.
It is a highly coveted honor. Why, even the officers under her direct command are rarely afforded such recognition!
But I will not deny you have earned it. Many of the tasks you have performed in service to the thalassocracy have been both difficult and dangerous.
This is a reward for all of your efforts─a nod to your many achievements, both large and small.
Has the enormity of this moment yet to sink in? Perchance you will realize its significance when you stand before the assembled dignitaries of Limsa Lominsa! ...And now that I have imagined the scene, I realize that you will require attire suitable for the occasion.
I suggest you visit the Wench and see what Baderon can arrange. He is surprisingly knowledgeable about such things.
Well, well...if it ain't Merlwyb's guest of 'onor! 'Obnobbin' with the 'igh an' mighty, now, is it?
I tell ye, lad, I damn near snorted ale out me nose when I 'eard the news. Ye've come a long bloody way, you 'ave, an' that's the truth.
Well, one thing's fer sure─ye'll not want fer decent grub. These banquets are catered by the bleedin' Bismarck, no less.
'Tis a grand chance to fill yer belly to burstin' with fine an'─more importantly─free food.
But we can't have ye turnin' up in yer shite-caked 'venturin' gear.
No, the 'ero o' the hour needs to 'ave a touch o' refinement about 'im─if only to stop folk complainin' when 'e stuffs 'is face with cake. Take yerself over to the Octant an' speak to J'nasshym o' the Brugaire Consortium. She'll furnish ye with summat gentlemanly to wear.
I've already 'ad a word with 'er, so all ye need do is pick up the goods, then bring 'em back 'ere, so as I can tell ye what's what.
