You're with Mistress Zero? How rare to see her with others!
I'm picking up some more spice. Mehryde told me to do so before my next visit.
Mistress Zero has quite the tolerance, you see. The Sisters know we Hannish are fond of spicy food, but I doubt any of us could keep up with her.
With just the spices they normally have on hand, the meyhane can't quite satisfy her. Which is why I'm happy to provide what they need to achieve more rigorous flavors!
Now then, variety being the spice of life, perhaps you'd like to choose something extra to blend with Mistress Zero's usual?
It'll help to keep things interesting! What do you say?
Fine by me. You can appreciate the nuances of this world's sustenance far better than I can, I expect.
What impressive samples. You'll not find a larger or finer selection in all the world.
So long as it's stimulating, I care not what you choose.
You're welcome to sample the spices, but bear in mind that what I recommend to Mistress Zero is potent!
You're welcome to sample the spices, but bear in mind that what I recommend to Mistress Zero is potent!
You're welcome to sample the spices, but bear in mind that what I recommend to Mistress Zero is potent!
You're welcome to sample the spices, but bear in mind that what I recommend to Mistress Zero is potent!
You're welcome to sample the spices, but bear in mind that what I recommend to Mistress Zero is potent!
You're welcome to sample the spices, but bear in mind that what I recommend to Mistress Zero is potent!
Ah, that's a fine choice. But don't take my word for it─here, have a taste!
Ah, that's a fine choice. But don't take my word for it─here, have a taste!
Go on, then! Have a taste and see what you think.
I doubt you need to be told this, but have care not to take too much at once...
Well?
Well?
Well?
Well?
Well?
Well?
Your reaction speaks volumes.
That will suffice, then.
Always a pleasure, Mistress Zero! And do give Mehryde my regards.
Give Mehryde my regards!
Welcome to Mehryde's Meyhane!
I am pleased to see that Zero has become a regular here, and so much so as to bring her own spice.
My usual, please. But with this spice.
Of course, Zero. It would be my pleasure.
Well now, this is enough to make a whole kettle of your special curry!
I don't need that much...
Rest assured, it's easy enough to make a serving just for you. Or we could make the kettle and share it?
There would be enough not only for your companions, but other diners as well. I daresay everyone will be delighted.
Very well. A full kettle, then.
Excellent. We'll prepare it at once.
And for Your Excellency and our esteemed adventurer? Are you happy to try a bowl of Zero's curry? We can make yours milder, if you prefer...
Grateful though I am for the offer, I cannot fully appreciate the flavor with this vessel. Another time, perhaps.
Do not hold back on my account, my friend. Eat and enjoy.
Understood. Please, make yourselves comfortable.
It gladdens me to see you taking to life in Radz-at-Han, Zero. In the area of our cuisine not least of all.
Spicy dishes have long been favored in our sultry clime for their ability to whet the appetite and cool the body.
Of course, spices also have the effect of preserving foods, which makes them highly coveted in foreign lands.
All of this has given rise to a thriving spice industry, and the wealth it brings has allowed our nation to prosper while maintaining its neutrality.
So you trade your spices. Seems rather more complicated than trading in aether.
In the beginning, this land was no more than refuge for me.
But now it is my home, and the people of Radz-at-Han my beloved children.
Together we built this vibrant nation. And naught would please me more than to show it to my sister one day.
Vibrant... Rubicante said the same when he described this world.
A reminder of all that has been stolen from us... What many who remember doubtless yearn to take back.
Our home is a lost cause, our only choice to begin anew.
In this world, where we may reclaim our mortality.
Nonetheless, it's wrong to damn another to save yourself─as I told Rubicante. As I found myself moved to speak...
I still do not understand what made me feel this way. Nor what compels you mortals to help one another. But I hope to someday.
We, too, hope that you will find the answers you seek.
