Hard to look away, isn't it?
But they're more than pretty flowers. “Heartblooms” are attuned to ambient emotion.
You don't seem convinced. But believe me, it's true.
This ashen grey, for instance. It mirrors the anxiety and urgency of those working nearby as they rush to fulfill sudden orders.
Intense feelings like those spur the petals to change color. Bright, glowing hues in the presence of joy. Dark, subdued shades for frustration or despair.
Yet even with the collected wisdom of Sharlayan at our disposal, we've yet to identify the underlying principle of this empathic effect.
And there are other mysteries besides. Although the flower is extraordinarily long-lived, its low reproductive rate has made it difficult to find younger populations growing in the wild.
With too few sightings to map its distribution, and no closely related species to track, we've been unable to pinpoint its land of origin.
To further complicate matters, every culture even dimly aware of its existence has given it a different name and mythos. Our attempts to study it via the historical record have been an exercise in frustration.
As an avid botanist myself, I should one day like to unravel the heartbloom's secrets...but I'm afraid other duties must take precedence. I will leave you to your thoughts.
Have you learned aught of interest?
A flower that reacts to one's feelings? Strange... I must say, I have never heard of such a thing.
This is all very fascinating, but as it stands, we've failed to gain any significant insight into the Forum's undertaking.
Indeed... While there is certainly enough activity to support Erenville's supposition that a priority has been placed on improving food production...
Unfortunately for our investigation, these workers were never informed as to how their duties serve the master plan.
Ugh. If only we could interrogate the Forum members directly.
Isn't that the entrance to the Archeion?
Look, there... I think that's Erenville.
A little difficult to tell from here, but...but I think you're right. He did say he was coming down to make his report.
Erenville receives his orders from the Forum. Would it not follow, then, that the superior to whom he reports is a Forum member─or at least a close associate?
You mean to eavesdrop on their conversation!? What of the risks?
Ours alone to bear. We won't interfere with Erenville's work, nor will he be implicated as an accomplice.
If you're not comfortable taking part, I can do this alone.
Nay. I said myself that I wished to know Father's intentions. And no answers will be forthcoming should we simply ask nicely.
We can apologize later should it come to it. Right now, we need every crumb of information we can get our hands on. Consequences be damned.
It might be best if you came along as well. In fact, we should all...
Krile?
Oh! Yes! That certainly sounds like a plan!
I'm glad you agree...
Quickly, Erenville is on the move. We need to get closer before we lose him!
Almost. I can almost reach you...
Forgive me, my attention has been elsewhere... We were following Erenville, weren't we?
It feels wrong to spy on Erenville, helpful as he's been...but what other choice do we have?
Let's get after him already! We've waited too long as it is!
Is Krile still feeling unwell? I've never seen her so distracted...
Keep an eye on her, but keep moving, too─we cannot let our quarry slip away.
Did you see which way Erenville went...?
Erenville was headed westwards along the path outside the Archeion. Come, we can still catch him!
I can still hear it...
It seems Y'shtola wishes to have a word with us.
We've fallen too far behind. And this damned mist won't help matters!
Hold a moment. I have an idea.
If memory serves, that colossal wall-like structure is Logistikon Beta─one of Labyrinthos's climate control centers.
It should have its own lifts, with which one could access the upper or lower tiers... Aye, if I were an agent of the Forum, it would make for a convenient meeting place...
But even if we happen to find Erenville in the company of said agent, we cannot expect them to reveal issues of importance as we nonchalantly stroll past.
Nay, we shall have to remain undetected.
If only G'raha and his Vanish spell were here...
Oh, but there are other ways of turning “invisible.”
Hippity hop, my little toads!
Goodness!
Unaccustomed to transfiguration? Worry not. It will wear off with the passage of time.
I suggest you and your green companions hop along and catch up with Erenville. Should you feel the magicks fading, return to me and I will refresh the enchantment.
Um...and what am I to do in the meantime?
Wait here with me. In your current state of mind, you'd be as likely to leap into the jaws of a predator as you would learn anything of note.
Which reminds me: ware the creatures hereabouts. In that form, you are essentially defenseless.
Stand still, and I shall recast the spell. The transformation should last long enough to allow you to find and spy upon Erenville.
<sigh> I would've enjoyed being a toad for a little while, if only for the change of pace... But Y'shtola is right. I am too preoccupied with other matters.
Ribbit ribbit?
Ribbit?
Ribbit?
Ribbit, ribbit... Ribbit!
Ribbit? Ribbit ribbit!
Ribbit!? Ribbit!
Ribbit!? Ribbit!
Ribbit! Ribbit ribbit!
Ribbit ribbit. Ribbit...
Ribbit? Ribbit ribbit.
Ribbit? Ribbit ribbit.
Ribbit ribbit!
Ribbit ribbit... Ribbit ribbit!
Ribbit ribbit... Ribbit ribbit!
Ribbit... Ribbit ribbit?
Ribbit... Ribbit ribbit?
