Meso Terminal memory deletion in progress.
Meso Terminal memory deletion in progress. Upon completion, interdimensional fusion will commence.
Sphene!
The Endless were unsustainable from the first. Sphene has been fighting a lost cause.
The Endless exist in defiance of the laws of nature. But they exist nonetheless, with Sphene holding them to be no different from the living...
While Sphene's intentions are good, her methods are anything but. We cannot yield at any cost.
Argh! What are we to do now, damn it!?
I felt that I had come to understand Sphene, but I'm still clueless. Utterly clueless!
It doesn't seem like we can do much else here. Let's return to the aetheryte for now.
The caretaker, Constancy. Perhaps he can tell us more about this business of Sphene going into a slumber.
No sign of Constancy...
Don't tell me he's gone somewhere else!?
Is that...? No, that's not him.
He's left the area.
He's nowhere in sight...
Perhaps he has taken other recent arrivals on a tour.
Looking for someone, are you?
Yes... He was here just earlier, a fellow named Constancy.
Wait, what!?
Hello, everyone. You made it here, as I knew you would.
Is that who I think it is?
It is! It's Cahciua!
None other. This is the first time some of you are seeing me in the proverbial flesh, isn't it?
Feast your eyes, then! She who was controlling that unassuming machine was a ravishing Shetona maiden!
...That was a bit much, wasn't it? Ignore me.
So it was true. That you're here means...
I tried to tell you. So many times. But my courage always failed me...
I am indeed an Endless. Have been for quite a while now.
Erenville...
Now, you've come to stop Sphene, yes? I can help with that, but I have a request to make.
You know how to stop her, then?
While there are no guarantees, your coming here makes it a distinct possibility.
As my wish is relevant to your mission, will you hear me out? You can decide what to do afterwards.
Excellent. To begin, we'll need to head to a different area.
See that sentry? I'll have them grant you access to the zip line.
Zip line? What is that?
A fun little mode of transport. They don't see much use, though, as we Endless can teleport freely within Living Memory.
This particular line will take you to a zone called Canal Town. I'll be waiting for you there.
<chuckle> With that endearing pushiness, it could only be Cahciua. Let's go!
Cahciua has already teleported ahead, it seems.
I'm sorry, it's just...she's gone, yet to see and hear her carrying on like nothing's... I don't know how to feel.
It has the look of the contraptions found throughout the Isle of Haam, does it not?
I think I know how it works! I've got this!
