Ah...at last...
Deep breaths... Slow and steady...
You saw it too, yes? The blue star below, thrown into turmoil.
Then it was no illusion. All was truth.
With the death of Zodiark, the laws of nature over which He presided have begun to unravel. The Final Days are upon us.
What you witnessed was an omen granted by the Echo. A vision of the horrors to come.
Time grows short.
No. I'll find no fulfillment in a contest with you this day.
Slavering beasts gather at your gates, ravenous and eager. Already you turn to them and away from me.
I must go forth once more in search of power far beyond the might of Shinryu─power to make your heart run over with rage.
For the eldest of primals was a betrayal of promise. A pathetic creature incapable of inspiring true despair. Aye, that's what I crave─pure, unadulterated despair...
We shall see...
I sense his presence on the moon no longer.
If you need not follow, then I beg you stay and listen to what I have to tell you.
Of Zodiark...and the end of all things.
Before we speak at length, I believe a change of surrounds is in order.
I have more than ill tidings to share, you see. I sensed others arriving not long ago.
Though my communions with Hydaelyn have grown infrequent, I have learned enough from Her to know these are your comrades.
And as luck would have it, they have already reached my abode. Come, let us join them.
Yes, they are indeed the three I sensed.
May we presume this being is a native of the moon?
Dare I ask what happened before we arrived?
Thank goodness you are unharmed.
We did what we could to subdue the tempered before making our way here.
Not without casualties, unfortunately. Some few detonated explosives, killing themselves and others.
The contingent's healers had their hands full tending to the injured and enthralled when we took our leave.
Lest you wonder, Mistress Krile hath also been delivered unto their care. Serving as a conduit for Hydaelyn's power hath taken its toll, but she will recover in due course.
As for Alphinaud and Alisaie, they insisted on remaining in Garlemald while we three rushed to your aid. It appears, however, that matters here have already come to a conclusion...
But what manner of conclusion, if I might ask? And is this the ally whom Hydaelyn bade you seek out? He is not unlike the shades of Amaurot.
Not unlike, perhaps, but not the same. I was created by Hydaelyn, together with this place. It has ever been my duty to keep vigil over Zodiark. Or rather, it was my duty...
Then Zodiark is no more!?
And not without consequence, I am afraid, for now the delicate weave of the star, preserved by His presence, will begin to unravel.
If you mean to avert the Final Days, you shall have need of─
Are you all right!?
My attempts to forestall Zodiark's release have all but exhausted my strength.
If you might allow me to rest a short while, I will share with you all I can.
Please do. You need not exert yourself on our account.
These crystals contain records of your time here, yes? May we peruse them while we wait?
By all means. If you would review them chronologically, might I suggest beginning with those on the upper floor?
I shall leave that to you, Forename, while I see what can be gleaned from the crystals on these lower levels.
A moment longer, friend...
Pray review the records on the upper floor, and I will see if there is aught to be learned down here.
Zodiark defeated... While He may have been in an incomplete state, that's nevertheless an impressive feat.
But even if you hadn't, His demise was inevitable─Fandaniel would've seen to it one way or another.
That said, he probably would have wielded Zodiark's power to wreak untold destruction before taking his own life, making this the better of two unfavorable outcomes.
Dost thou suppose our host hath maintained his solitary vigil since the very beginning, without rest or relief?
If so, these records comprise the sum total of his existence. We must needs handle them with care.
If so, these records comprise the sum total of his existence. We must needs handle them with care.
