Who treadeth now upon my bones and waketh me from slumber sweet?
Thou hast forgotten the face of thy lord. Remember, mortal, and fear me.
Even should our enemy be a great wyrm, we mustn't falter!
Come, then. Thou shalt be weighed in the balances.
Into thee I place my spirit. Rise, my child, and join in the chorus.
I bid thee rise, my child, and join in the chorus once more.
How bold thy defiance.
Yet full of fear is thy heart.
Hearken to me, mortal, and thou shalt know I am thy lord.
Heh heh heh. So thou art gifted...
By Her gifts hast thou earned a moment's reprieve.
Speak, mortal, and I shall listen.
Guided by a star...? Heh heh heh.
My people have heard the song. Ishgard shall burn.
Sons must answer for their fathers' misdeeds.
We do not forget. We do not forgive.
Seven children did I sire. One now singeth of retribution.
I rise to join in the chorus.
Thou art powerless to silence us, mortal. Yet thou shalt not live to labor in vain. Thy reprieve is at an end.
Hmph. Trickery is thy shield. This frail, ignoble creature is not gifted, but chosen...
Hearken to me, Hydaelyn! I remember...and I consent.
Fear not, mortal... I shall not harm thee...
Heh heh heh. Mayhap thou thinkest me an oathbreaker?
Thou art mistaken. If thou comest to harm, it shall be by another's hand, not mine.
I did but strip thee of thy mistress's feeble blessing.
Thou didst profit much by Her grace, but no more.
The covenant binds me to thee.
I shall watch...listen...and wait.
Fight and struggle, if it be thy will.
Man hath ever coveted that which lieth beyond his grasp.
I drink of Her body, and thence doth mine own find new life.
When it hath grown whole, the loyal and penitent shall rejoice.
The Dragonsong heraldeth a beginning...and an end.
I was beginning to fear the worst! Were those explosions I saw?
Ah, but you shouldn't waste time talking with me. Alphinaud left a message stating that you were to return to the Rising Stones at once.
Praise the Twelve that you are hale and whole!
I came as soon as Minfilia informed me of Ser Aymeric's request.
You have completed your investigation of the Keeper of the Lake, I take it? Then I would hear your report.
You...conversed with Midgardsormr? I swear, were anyone else to make such a claim, I would regard it with considerable skepticism.
Are we to understand that the wyrm lord did not perish, and has in sooth lain dormant these past fifteen years?
Less a resurrection and more a rejuvenation for he who dwelleth in eternity, years passing as moments...
Though his words were ambiguous at times, one statement left little room for interpretation:
“My people have heard the song. Ishgard shall burn.”
Clearly, an attack is imminent. We must share this information with Ser Aymeric immediately.
However, we dare not divulge your conversation with Midgardsormr in its entirety.
To even acknowledge that you heard the voice of a Dravanian is a grave but necessary risk. Lest we forget, men have been executed as heretics for declaring as much.
For your own protection, and for the sake of our tenuous relations with Ishgard, the truth cannot leave this room.
As for how we shall present our revelation to Ser Aymeric's emissary, you may leave that to me. Pray remain here for now.
Is there something you are not telling us, Forename?
You seem...different, somehow. 'Tis almost as if you are missing something...something important.
Twelve forfend! Midgardsormr stripped you of the blessing of Light!? Are you all right? How do you feel!?
I see... It is a relief to hear that you are otherwise unharmed.
It beggars belief that any being could possess the power to deprive you of Her blessing.
Hmmm... Midgardsormr made mention of a covenant, did he not?
One of the ancient myths regarding Silvertear Falls states that when the waters came into existence, so too did the great wyrm.
Althyk and Nymeia, Brother Time and Sister Fate, decreed that Midgardsormr ever watch over the source, from which all water─and magic─was said to flow.
I wonder... What if this was the covenant of which he spoke, and 'twas not the gods with whom he treated, but Hydaelyn Herself?
Well, if he is watching over you as he claimed, mayhap you will have an opportunity to ask.
Let us keep this matter to ourselves. I do not wish to burden our friends needlessly.
Art thou a pawn, or master of thy fate?
What hast thou wrought by thine own hands, mortal?
My friend! I can scarce believe it! You confronted the wyrm lord and lived to tell the tale!
I give thanks to Halone for your preservation. It is our sole cause for gladness.
Your encounter with the Keeper of the Lake served to confirm our fears. A great wyrm has roared, and it makes little difference if it was one of the two in Eorzea or any other...
The Dravanians are coming.
I am told that Ishgard has magical defenses against Dravanian attack, though I am not privy to their exact nature.
Will they be enough to repel a massive force?
Ishgard has weathered countless assaults over centuries. This will be no different.
And now that you have confirmed the threat, none can ignore the lord commander's calls for the wards to be strengthened.
I dare not presume to speak for him, but I expect the lord commander would sing your praises.
I must away, but we shall meet again soon.
Countless assaults weathered...and this will be no different? Why am I not convinced?
The Ishgardians have warred with the Dravanians for centuries─nay, nearly one thousand years.
In all that time, not once have their enemies breached their defenses and entered the city proper.
Yet regardless of how strong these magical wards may be, I nevertheless fear that the Ishgardians are underestimating the gravity of the situation.
Though it was not Midgardsormr who roared, a call to arms by one of the first brood cannot be ignored...
Until such time as they choose to request our aid, however, we can do naught but observe the situation at a distance, and pray that our fears are unfounded.
Ere I forget, I believe Moenbryda has requested a gathering of the Scions. I assume there has been some progress concerning our efforts to combat the Ascians.
Pray inform her that our business with the Ishgardians is concluded for the moment─I shall be along once I've completed my communications with the Crystal Braves.
All done with your talk of dragons? Wonderful, because Ascians are next on the menu! Let's head into the solar, shall we?
Now that everything's calmed down a bit─relatively speaking, I mean─I thought it might be a good time to share our progress on the weapon.
I believe we're on the verge of a breakthrough.
Well, don't keep us all in suspense.
Just in case anyone's forgotten, let's start by reviewing what we already know. So! An Ascian is an immortal because its soul doesn't return to the aetherial realm when its host is defeated. Instead, it flees to the place that lies between our world and the void.
Therefore, the first step to permanently defeating an Ascian is preventing its soul from making this journey. And if you recall, when we last gathered here, I had verified that white auracite has adequate capacity to entrap the beings, albeit only briefly.
Which left the small matter of their extermination.
Aye. To unmake an Ascian soul, one must needs smite it with a concentrated burst, or “blade,” of purest aether. However, we wanted for both the data and the means to forge such a weapon.
Short of experimenting on an actual Ascian, you see, there's no way to gauge how much aether its soul is made of.
As such, we don't know what aetheric density our blade needs to have in order for it to work.
So we'll just have to make the densest blade we can, and hope for the best! Though that would require a lot of aether...
Hang on a minute! Why didn't we think of this before!? White auracite can hold an absolute heap of aether, can't it!?
Please tell me you're joking. Gods' sakes, Yda! I feel as though I'm reliving the same scene over and over with you! How many times do you need to be told that white auracite cannot store aether for long periods?
Being intangible matter, aether is given to dispersion; only in its crystallized form is it a stable source of energy. I will test you later on this, so see to it you do not forget.
Ah...r-right, yes... It's all coming back to me...
So our hopes rest on good old crystals again, do they? While they are certainly reliable, they leave something to be desired in the area of portability.
Indeed. I am reminded of the quantity of corrupted crystals required to thwart Leviathan, and the extraordinary lengths to which the Lominsans went to transport them. What if it should prove that a similar quantity was needed to destroy an Ascian soul─or still more...?
I do not envy the poor sod who has to lug all of that around on the off chance that an Ascian appears.
That's the very problem we set out to solve, and I reckon we've found the answer. If it isn't practical to lug around the aether we need, we'll just have to draw upon another source.
And the only viable source is the land.
If you mean to tap the great river of aether, know that it will entail considerable risk. Meddling with the currents may well induce a surge like to the one which despoiled Mor Dhona.
Give me a bit more credit, will you? Why would we need to tap the river when there're veritable reservoirs jutting out all over the land?
Aye, I speak of corrupted crystals. It might be that their aspect is out of balance, but a crystal's a crystal─it contains aether, and we can help ourselves to it.
While corrupted crystals are indeed abundant, there is no guarantee that they will be in close proximity at a crucial moment.
Ah, but what if we don't need them to be? What if we could tap their power from afar? A malm away, say?
If we could do that, we'd have ready access to aether aplenty in almost every corner of Eorzea.
I've yet to put my theories to the proof, but I've got a good feeling about this. If no one has any objections, I'd like to see where this avenue leads.
If you think it worth your while, you have my blessing.
But tell us, what are your theories? I for one am most eager to understand the process, however vaguely.
I thought you might say that. But no one wants to listen to boring old theories all day, do they? I know I don't. So, with your permission, I'd like to try something a bit more hands-on. I've already built an aetheric siphon especially for this purpose, and I've been meaning to try it out.
Thing is, the profusion of corrupted crystals in Mor Dhona makes it something of a high-risk testing ground. If anything goes awry with the siphon, it would be better if it didn't happen within spitting distance of quite so much aether.
Ideally, I need an isolated specimen. Does anyone know where I can find one?
May I suggest northern Thanalan? There you will find corrupted crystals of middling size, standing a reasonable distance apart. Ideal for your needs, I should have thought. Oh, and if you do elect to visit the place, I should be much obliged if you would assist me in another matter while you are in the area.
Has something happened?
Movement has been observed at Castrum Meridianum.
During Operation Archon, the Alliance dealt the stronghold a heavy blow. Its facilities were extensively damaged, and its garrison reduced to a fraction of its former strength.
Not long after our forces withdrew, however, their ranks were replenished by reinforcements from Castrum Centri. They now seek to rebuild, and to this end they have their sights set upon the Ceruleum Processing Plant.
Having lost the Empire's support, the XIVth Legion lacks the resources to sustain itself. To them, this is a bid for survival, and they will doubtless fight like desperate men.
Though I have dispatched the Crystal Braves, I fear their strength alone may not suffice to stay the imperial assault. I would request the Scions' aid in the defensive effort.
If I didn't know better, I'd say you were trying to inveigle us into fighting your battle with the promise of shiny crystals!
Well then, consider me inveigled! I won't lie, the crystals you speak of sound perfect─so the Garleans have to go!
Besides, we can't afford to beat about the bush. There's no telling when the Ascians will next appear.
Thine eagerness to hurl thyself into the jaws of danger cometh as little surprise. Exercise due caution, I prithee.
Though you have become a Crystal Brave, you are yet a Scion, Alphinaud. We could hardly refuse you.
Pray join the Crystal Braves and lend them your support. Thancred and Papalymo shall accompany you.
Yda and Y'shtola─in the meantime I would have you assist Moenbryda. Scout out the crystal clusters, that the testing may commence as soon as the Garlean threat has been eliminated.
If it please you, I shall continue mine own experiments on white auracite.
Thank you, Urianger. Everyone, pray see to your preparations and depart as soon as you are able. Go well, and be safe.
'Twould seem that events have once more conspired to rob us of rest and recuperation. Though I would wish it otherwise, I must ask that you head straightaway to the processing plant.
The 4th have already deployed to the area, and await the arrival of the Scions. Wilred will brief you on the developing situation.
Meanwhile, I must rendezvous with Captain Ilberd at our headquarters in Ul'dah. I shall take command of our forces there with a lighter heart, knowing that you go to support the front lines.
Your duties take you to northern Thanalan, do they not?
We, too, must say our farewells to the Rising Stones for a time. F'lhaminn travels to Ul'dah, and we shall serve as her escort.
At my daughter's behest, I go to contact certain old acquaintances in the gilded city.
We are beset on all sides by civil unrest and imperial machinations, threatened by primals and troubled by dragons─we need all the allies we can muster.
Many of my friends hold positions of power, you see, and it is my hope that they can be convinced to aid the Scions' cause.
If past events have taught us anything, then we know that Eorzea must present a united front or we shall fall...
Ah, how extraordinary that my little Ascilia is involved in such far-reaching affairs.
I am proud that I might now stand at her side not only as a mother, but also as a colleague.
A colleague with influential connections! But I fear that Ul'dah has become a place of danger even for one so familiar with her streets.
Bah! Woe betide the blackguard that so much as glares in your direction, milady!
Ahaha, I shall be well protected, it seems.
Shall we be on our way, then?
Commander Leveilleur sent word that you'd be coming─a veteran of your talents is most welcome.
Not that I don't think we can handle the situation, mind you! I've learned a trick or two since that disaster with the Amalj'aa.
But returning to the task at hand...
The Flames' reconnaissance scouts have reported imperial soldiers assembling at Raubahn's Push. Such a force is likely interested in only one thing: getting their hands on the resources found here at the processing plant.
The Garleans could begin marching on us at any time. Pray speak with Lieutenant Edelstein, that we might coordinate our counter strategy.
In the meantime, I will inform the others that you have arrived. No doubt it will be welcome tidings.
Captain Surname! My soldiers yet tell tales of your deeds during Operation Archon!
Would that we could sit a while and reminisce about old times...but I fear more pressing matters require our attention. The civilian draughtsmen, you see, have come across several highly suspicious crates within the boundaries of the processing plant.
I had my sappers take a closer look, and our worst fears were confirmed─these boxes contain powerful explosive devices. Devices of imperial design, no less.
By my order, the Flames stationed here are conducting a thorough sweep of the compound as we speak.
Though it troubles me that we were unable to apprehend the imperial spy behind this, I have faith that our men will be able to neutralize the threat for now.
In the meantime, our scouts bring troubling news on the latest movements of the imperial army. I would once again ask for your aid.
We've been keeping a close eye on that Garlean garrison, and 'twould seem the imperials have finally begun to mobilize.
According to the reconnaissance report that just came in, the squads seen leaving the castrum are too few in number to effectively take and hold our position. They will likely mount a swift assault, and focus on the acquisition of resources.
I have, of course, also shared this report with the Crystal Braves─they've decided to take to the field to meet this assault head-on. I have apprised your fellow Scions of the situation, and am heartened to know that they will be joining the effort.
Pray report to Lieutenant Alianne, and lend your much-welcome strength to the counteroffensive.
Glad to have you with us, Forename. As I'm sure Lieutenant Edelstein has explained, the Garleans have deployed a small force from Castrum Meridianum.
Their main column assembles to the north near Dalamud's Talons, but we've also spied several squads attempting to conceal themselves on the approach to the west.
They wish you to rush forth and commit to battle with the main column, leaving the detached force free to raid the plant and pillage supplies. Not much of a strategy, but these are desperate men.
Captain Ilberd!
Greetings, Scion. I understand the commander bid you and your fellows come lend a hand to the Braves. With such mighty heroes at its disposal, the 4th should have little trouble contending with aught the Garleans might throw at them.
But even you cannot be everywhere at once. The 3rd was getting restless holed up in Ul'dah, so I marched them out here to fill any holes in the plant's defenses and add their numbers to your counterattack.
The reinforcements are welcome. We've enough soldiers now to divide our own forces and safely engage the enemy far beyond the walls.
Aye, 'twould be best to avoid staging a battle anywhere near this much ceruleum. Let's take this fight to the Garleans.
A wise course, indeed. I shudder to think of the consequences should any of these storage tanks be exposed to fire...
If there are no objections, the Scions shall join the 4th and give battle to this main column.
You're with the 3rd, then, Warrior of Light. Your job will be to intercept these squads hiding out in the west and prevent them from reaching the processing plant.
When you're ready to proceed, report to Lieutenant Yuyuhase─his scouts should have a rough idea of where the imperials have concealed themselves by now.
A pleasure to be fighting at your side once more, Scion. Our operations invariably succeed when you're around, and victories are wont to pave the road to greater coin.
Now, this detached force we've been sent to eliminate has split into smaller squads─the better to conceal themselves within the terrain hereabouts, I imagine. We'll need to split ourselves up as well to cover more ground, and make sure we root out all these would-be raiders.
And seeing as you're an army unto yourself, I've assigned you your own areas to scour clean of enemy soldiers. Aye, this will be a simple search and destroy.
We'll rendezvous back here when the task is done. Happy hunting, Scion.
You seem grim, Scion. I'll take that to mean that, between us, more than a few Garleans won't be making it back to the castrum.
These imperials, though, they certainly made us earn our pay. I would be a happy man if I never had to tussle with another of those magitek horrors...
It is time we bid this war-torn land farewell. I will contact the 4th, and let Lieutenant Alianne know the west is now clear.
I would appreciate it if you would do the same when you report to Lieutenant Edelstein.
Captain Surname! What news of the Garleans?
Their raiding parties are no more, then? Excellent.
The Amajina engineers will be most relieved to hear that the plant is no longer in any immediate danger. Thank you again for your assistance.
You must be anxious for word of your fellows. Lieutenant Alianne has reported a sound victory over the main column, and informs me that the Scions have already turned their attention to other duties.
All but one, that is. The Roegadyn lady with the large axe? 'Twould appear she has chosen to remain at the site of the battle.
I know not what task keeps her from returning to civilization, but northern Thanalan is no place to wander alone─even for a capable sort such as her. I would certainly feel better about things if you could check in on her before you continue on your way.
Hold on. I won't be a second.
The beast seemed peckish, so I gave it a taste of my axe.
I know, I know... As Urianger never tires of reminding me, “An axe ill becometh the hand of a scholar.” What can I say? I like axes. To hear my mother tell it, I came into this world holding one.
And it's not as if it stopped me picking up a quill, is it? I often think of the man who introduced me to the joys of learning... He's one of the reasons I decided to come to Eorzea.
...Him and my excruciatingly stiff childhood friend. Considering how unalike we are, it's a wonder we ever got on. The world's a strange old place, isn't it?
Aye, that ought to do it.
So far, so good. At these concentrations, it shouldn't matter too much if something goes awry. Just enough aether to make it interesting.
Did you see that? The way the crystal glowed?
The siphon works, I'm happy to say. With a few refinements, it should satisfy our appetite for aether. Which just leaves the small matter of forging our blade.
I'm not sure how to go about it just yet, but I swear to find a way. I'll put a blade in your hands if it's the last thing I do.
She senses me. A useful talent.
An Ascian!? Are they onto us!?
By your brand, I see you are an Archon of Sharlayan. Keeper of knowledge. Seeker of truth. Meddler.
I don't know what the hells you're saying, but I don't much like your tone.
Hahaha. Your instincts serve you well. But come, be not unsettled on my account. That lovely brow was not made for frowns. Ah, but I waste my breath.
Let me direct my words to one who understands them. We meet at last, Warrior of Light. I am Nabriales...
...And you have long been a thorn in my side. I suffered the overweening presence of Lahabrea that men might host the power of gods, only for you to undo my hard work.
Do settle down.
You must concede that I acted in self-defense.
But what's this? I do not sense the blessing of Light...
Oh dear! Could it be that frail Hydaelyn has forgotten Her champion!? This I did not foresee!
Shorn of Light as you are, you are no longer a threat. And better yet, the seal is broken.
Now is the time to claim the staff!
With it in my grasp, I shall rise above them all and take my place at Lord Zodiark's right hand!
What did that bastard want with us?
Nabriales, he calls himself? With charm like that, I'll bet he has maidens falling at his feet. Unconscious.
But this staff─you say just talking about it had the bastard grinning like a brat on his nameday? Must be quite a staff.
Oh, gods... He means Tupsimati, Master Louisoix's staff!
Minfilia's in danger! We have to get back to the Rising Stones!
You're here!
Master Louisoix's staff is kept in the solar, isn't it? Quickly, now!
You two!
So you were able to divine my intent. What now, Warrior of Light? Ah, but that name is no longer fitting. You have become decidedly dull, and quite incapable of barring my entry.
What do you mean!?
You truly do not know? Then I suppose it is only right that I enlighten you.
The blessing of Light kept you and your fellow meddlers safe. It was that which prevented my kind from entering your domain.
My kind, I say, though it had no power over the likes of Elidibus and Lahabrea. Being of this world, they could come and go as they please, while I could only look on...
But I need look no longer. Now that the seal is gone, I mean to act. Unlike the others, I am not given to waiting. I shall take that staff and bring about the next Rejoining.
...Rejoining? Then it was your doing! The Isle of Val, the scholars─all of it!
You will not harm her!
Moenbryda!
Why must you insist on forcing my hand? Did you learn nothing from our last meeting? Ah, but I forget─my words fall upon deaf ears.
The staff is but a broken relic─a memorial to the departed. What possible use could you have for it?
What use!? You mean to say that all this time, you kept the key, never knowing what it was you possessed?
The staff Tupsimati─or rather, the stone tablet it bears─is host to a great power.
Together with the horn, it can be used to draw vast quantities of aether from its bearer's surroundings.
How else do you think Louisoix was able to invoke the power of the Twelve without making them an offering of crystals?
Summoning requires not only prayer, but a profusion of aether. Even a child knows that.
If I did not know before, you may be certain I do now. But above all, I know that we cannot allow this staff to fall into your hands. I will die before I let you take it.
Insufferable woman. I would happily end your miserable life here and now... Alas, Elidibus would never let me hear the end of it.
Very well. If you will not part with the staff, I will take you too.
After them! Quickly...before the rift closes!
I shall not toy with you as does Lahabrea!Witness the terrible might of a true servant of Zodiark!
Writhing powers of ruination!From the deepest pits of the abyss I summon thee!
Insatiable hunger of the void!Devour all light and return this world to perfect darkness!
By Zodiark's name I command thee!River of time, mire mine enemy in thy sluggish flow!
Impossible!Has he power over...time itself!?
You shall wither in the merciless embrace of eternity!
But...you are shorn of Her blessing!How do you yet resist me!?
You're safe... Thank the Twelve...
You may have bested me this day...but what of the next? What of all the days to come!?
Remember: Light no longer holds sway here. I may return whensoever I wish. Again and again and again. Eventually, you will falter and the staff will be mine. Until next time, Scions.
There will be no next time! This is the end!
What!? What trickery is this!?
No! Nooo! You cannot! Nooooooooo!
Use Tupsimati to gather aether! Quickly, before he breaks free!
Concentrate! Call to mind the time you struck down Lahabrea with the blade of Light!
Why won't it work? Is it because we lack the blessing of Light?
Damn it... So much aether...and it still isn't enough...
Fools! No mortal prison can contain me! I shall make you pay for your insolence!
Please, Mother Hydaelyn! Hearken to our plea! Lend us Your divine Light!
Why can You not hear us? Do our words no longer reach You?
If only we had...a bit more aether...
Moenbryda! What are you doing!?
Master Louisoix... I understand now...the choice you made...
In death...there is life... Farewell, Urianger...you daft old coot...
What!? Nooo! It...it cannot end!
I am eternal! I am immortaaaaaal!
Moenbryda... She's...she's gone...
You did it, my friend. The Ascian is dead.
This device is a legacy of Moenbryda's toils and sacrifice.
I shall hold on to it for safekeeping.
Minfilia! Are you all right?
I am.
We were surveying northern Thanalan when we received the distress call.
We returned as swiftly as we were able.
It seems you have everything in hand, however.
What happened here? Where is Moenbryda?
She gave her life to temper the blade of Light? I...I have no words.
Rather than await the inevitable, she took her fate into her own hands.
Does...does Urianger know...?
My friend. There is something I must tell you.
I heard all, my lady.
The moon sinketh, taking her leave of the heavens. Yet her passing heraldeth the coming of a new day....Moenbryda hath fulfilled her destiny, hath she not?
Long ago, far across the seas in the Sharlayan motherland, Moenbryda and I did study under the sage tutelage of Master Louisoix.
Full oft did he impress upon us that knowledge existeth to serve the greater good. This sentiment, however, was contrary to the nation's policy of neutrality, which censured intercedence in the affairs of foreign lands.
In spite of vehement opposition, he founded the Circle of Knowing and journeyed hither to the heart of Eorzea. Through his noble sacrifice was the realm spared its doom.
Yet this great soul, whom all should rightly have honored, was branded a pariah in his own land. His peers did accuse him of forsaking his duty as a man of learning, and of meddling in the course of history.
When he left Sharlayan behind, Master Louisoix gave no word to signal his intent to Moenbryda. Close as they were, as master and disciple, she was deeply wounded by the sudden exclusion from his confidence.
Above all, however, she was confused. Try as she might, she could ill comprehend her master's motive. The slanders that were heaped upon him after his passing served only to inflame the turmoil within her.
For years upon end, she knew not what to believe, torn as she was 'twixt the man whom she revered, and the man who forsook her and his duty both.
The Louisoix I knew would never forsake his duty, much less one of his own.
This I know full well, my lady. 'Twas not for want of love that Master Louisoix hid his intent. He but desired that Moenbryda discover her own path, free of the shadow of his influence.
Long did I contemplate revealing the truth to her, and long did I hold my peace. After all, was it not Master Louisoix's wish that she come to the truth unaided? I told myself it was, and resolved to let her suffer.
Knowingly did I deny my friend the comfort she craved. And now she hath gone to her rest with doubt still in her heart.
Speakest thou in earnest? Did Moenbryda truly come to understand Master Louisoix's will before the end?
The realization hath set her free. She may now find the peace which hath for so long eluded her.
Oh, Moenbryda... My dearest... How I shall miss thee...
Moenbryda gave her life that we might possess the means to defeat the Ascians.
Her sacrifice must not be in vain. Let us continue her work on the blade of aether and see it to completion.
My lady. I would mourn Moenbryda in mine own way. I beg your permission to return to the Waking Sands.
Of course, my friend. Take all the time you require. We shall be here should you have need of us.
Never have I seen Urianger so utterly defeated. No one should be made to suffer such grief...
We shall gather in the Sharlayan manner to celebrate Moenbryda's life...and mourn her passing.
As Moenbryda was a native of Sharlayan, I feel it is only fitting that we gather before the mark of the Scholar. Are you familiar with the stone?
'Tis a monument found at Rathefrost, and is sacred to Thaliak, guardian deity of the city of learning.
There shall we pray for our dear friend's soul, and bid her a peaceful return to the light of the Mothercrystal.
Forgive me, Moenbryda. Had I been quicker, or wiser...
But I was not, and you paid the price.
But you would not suffer us to wallow in our sorrow, would you? You would tell us to...pick ourselves up and get on with it.
And so we shall. We shall defend this realm and her people to the last.
Life for death. A fair exchange.
Other bargains will be struck.
Though we have said our farewells, the pall of sadness has diminished but little. Forgive me: as Antecedent, 'tis my job to be the pillar of strength for all others to lean upon.
Yet I also believe the grief we feel now is precious in its own way, and not to be lightly swept aside. Do you not agree, Forename?
'Tis as if a dagger has been thrust into my breast...
But 'tis a pain we must learn to bear if we are to forge ahead with our duty.
The battles we have fought have taken the lives of so many. Louisoix. Moenbryda. Our fellows at the Waking Sands.
Their spirit and dedication to our cause, however, will never be lost as long as we rise to fight once more.
I hardly need remind you of this, of course. 'Tis for my own benefit that I repeat these words─a reaffirmation of mine own chosen path.
If I do not rebuild the foundation of my resolve, I am like to collapse in a fit of weeping...
My apologies again, Forename─there is no other to whom I could display such weakness.
You are my pillar of strength, and I fear I shall have need of your steadfast presence in the days to come...
You are my pillar of strength, and I fear I shall have need of your steadfast presence in the days to come...
You are my pillar of strength, and I fear I shall have need of your steadfast presence in the days to come...
You are my pillar of strength, and I fear I shall have need of your steadfast presence in the days to come...
Ah, Forename, it is good you are come. I have news you must be made aware of.
Alas, none of it bodes well for us, nor for Unei, Doga, and Nero imprisoned in the dark realm.
Think back upon our last foray into Syrcus Tower, if you will. The Calamity stirred the place from its long slumber and awoke Emperor Xande. But you, Forename, you ensured he was laid to rest permanently.
Yet the emperor had sealed a binding covenant with the terrible voidsent known as the Cloud of Darkness. Even as Doga and Unei labored to annul this contract, the entity reached through a rift and dragged the pair of them─and Nero─out of our realm.
Since that day, NOAH has devoted itself to rescuing Unei, Doga, and Nero from beyond the rift. Our research, however, has exposed a far more dire problem.
The Crystal Tower still acts upon Emperor Xande's orders, and collects energy to open another voidgate even as we speak. Indeed, the place nigh hums with energy.
We have done all we can to stop the imperial edict, but to no avail. Just as the gate would open only for Unei and Doga, so too will the tower heed only those with the royal blood of Allag.
'Tis a most galling design. Granted, this was not always so vexatious, according to the Allagan tomestone Nero presented us.
During the golden age of Allag, the royalty had some means of bestowing their blood upon others. If they hadn't such a technology, Amon and his underlings could never have controlled the Crystal Tower.
But we do not have either this art or any with royal blood. Every moment we wait, a vast rift through which the Cloud of Darkness can enter our realm threatens to open.
Such a disaster cannot be allowed to come to pass. We must seal the Crystal Tower, and annul Xande's covenant with the dark realm.
If only breaking the latter would suffice... But then what of the energy building in the Crystal Tower? Without suppression, that power could discharge and cause a calamity like to the one that destroyed Allag.
In truth, we have more than just three lost compatriots to worry about. If we do not act, our very world will fall before the might of this threat.
We know but one way out of this predicament: rescue those who can control the tower from beyond the dark realm, and seal the rift shut after them. And mercifully, not all our news is quite so bleak.
'Tis true we cannot stop the voidgate from manifesting within the tower, but this can be to our benefit.
We can use Syrcus's power for our own purposes, and create a portal to carry us into the dark realm!
We have heard this is possible from a man of the Thaumaturges' Guild well versed in otherworldly matters. And with Master Garlond working to create said portal, the final preparations are well underway. Ah, and here comes the man himself.
Forename! Just the woman we need!
Yes, our fellowship is indeed complete, and all parties privy to our strategy. And you, Master Garlond, how fare your endeavors?
Quite well! The device is nearly ready─though attaching the damnable thing to Syrcus Tower took every onze of ingenuity the Ironworks has got. But it should produce the energy we need.
With just a little more fine-tuning, we can open a rift. I'm here to request your presence at the tower.
I'll leave Biggs and Wedge at the Eight Sentinels as guides. And do hurry, Forename. I'm sure you wouldn't miss another chance to save the world, would you?
Well, Cid certainly seems to have a firm hand on the helm. Shall we make our way to the Crystal Tower?
Forename! I'll bet you're here to watch us pry open a rift between worlds, eh?
We're almost ready. Syrcus Tower is full of engineers scurrying around and making adjustments. We're dealing with a lot of power, and if a single coupling's off... Well, boom!
B-But it should be fine. Really! Anyway, you'd best wait at the top. The chief's there overseeing the whole operation.
My friends, you've arrived. I'm just waiting for my engineers to give the signal. Then, we'll see if we can't open a gateway to another world!
Hm? Is there something amiss, G'raha?
...Ahhh, Emperor Xande's throne─how the mighty have fallen, eh? Once, it stood as a symbol of Allag's art and power. Now, it's nothing more than an empty chair.
Just imagine if Allagan civilization had lived on, and a just emperor still sat on that throne. How different would our history be, how much further would we have advanced? <sigh> Unfortunately, there was no stopping Xande and his ambition.
There...there were those who tried.
Xande's war of dominion left no one unscathed. Unable to abide the horrors inflicted upon the people, warriors young and brave took up the sword against Allag.
These men and women became as beacons of hope to those who had suffered─not unlike the Warriors of Light in our age.
But all this merely hastened the destruction. Just as they moved towards Allag's heart for the kill, Xande lashed out in anger and frustration...as trapped beasts are wont to do.
In his desperation, Xande desired that a great rift be opened to hasten the Cloud of Darkness's coming. To this end, he commanded the sun's power held within Dalamud be emptied into Syrcus Tower at once.
The act bore terrible consequences. The tower only withstood the blast by flooding the land below with energy. Syrcus was swallowed by the very earth upon which it once stood.
The Fourth Umbral Calamity... I'd learned of its cause from Unei and Doga. I had no idea that rebellion incited Xande to rashness, though.
Your knowledge of Allagan history is astounding, G'raha. Why, a man could study for two lifetimes and only learn half of what you know.
Mayhap... 'Tis strange, though─I cannot seem to remember where I learned such things...
Yes? Ah, Biggs, are you ready?
Ready and raring to open up that voidgate, Chief!
We reckon when this machine's up and running, she'll be able to float five airships the size of the Agrius. So just give us the word, and we'll start channeling energy into the tower.
Good! Then let's get started!
Our preparations are complete. Everyone, step away from the throne.
All right, let's see what this machine can do. Now, Biggs!
Ahhh, a rift to the World of Darkness, as Unei called it. Splendid work, Master Garlond!
We can't break out the mead just yet. The tough part's still ahead. We've broken into the dark realm, but the gate's not all that stable: it won't stay open forever, and only a few can use it.
I, for one, will remain here to ensure the voidgate stays open.
As will the Sons of Saint Coinach. This rift is our sole path to salvation─if it closes, we are all truly lost.
Which leaves...Forename. My friend, 'tis a heavy burden I must task you with, but there are none more able. Pray lead the adventurers beyond the rift.
I do not know what awaits you, save the Cloud of Darkness and our three comrades. But you must go, for the fate of our world now rests upon your shoulders.
This is our only gambit, but I have every faith you will succeed.
It will be no small feat to return after you have passed beyond the rift. Make certain you are prepared before leaving.
...Might I have a moment of your time, Forename? There is a matter of import we must needs discuss ere you leave.
Forename, I wished to speak to you about my eye. As you are no doubt aware, 'tis a trait seen only amongst Allagan royalty.
Long I have pondered why such is my inheritance. The sanguine hue must have some bearing upon my destiny─this much Doga himself admitted. But what?
In truth, the more I learn of the Crystal Tower, the less I am myself. Somehow, meeting those two clones has wrought great change in me.
I am consumed with remembering...something. Something ancient, but ever so important.
And my father's words echo in my mind, the selfsame ones his father told him: the truth of our eye rests with Allag.
Mayhap what I wish to remember and these words are related. Mayhap not. But I know I must learn the truth that history hides from me. I would see this journey─our journey─through to the very end with mine own two eyes.
So I implore you: allow me to join you beyond the rift!
You have my thanks, my friend. Now, let us venture into the World of Darkness, to save our comrades and our realm!
