What've we got here? Guests?
Greetings to you. I am Alphinaud Leveilleur, and may I introduce my companions, Forename Surname and Y'shtola. We have journeyed far in search of a friend, and seek to cross the river.
But findin' the main bridge collapsed, you went lookin' for a detour, and ended up stumblin' into Slowfix and his crew. Is that right?
That is the short of it, aye. This place, Idyllshire─I came expecting a ghost town; suffice it to say I am surprised to find it so alive.
Well, with all them precious artifacts lyin' about, 'twas only a matter of time afore treasure hunters like me moved in. But we weren't the first to arrive, neither. By then, Slowfix and his gobbie friends were already settled.
At first, gobbies and hunters disliked each other. But understanding came, then friendship. Now gobbies and hunters have joined hands to build great new nation!
So that is what happened after we Sharlayans departed...
Oh, so you're locals...? Um, no hard feelin's, I hope? All these nice buildings, but no one to live in 'em─felt like a waste, you know?
We've been tryin' to put the place to rights, and things've been goin' well for the most part, but it ain't all smooth sailin'. Not to sound ungrateful, but the traps your people left lyin' about are a bloody nuisance. And there's the Illuminati harryin' us day and night...
Pshkohhh, Slowfix has bright idea! Uplanders desire mutual understanding, yes? Best way to understanding is helping one another! Help citizens of Idyllshire, and uplanders can be citizens too! Citizens are free to cross river!
Well, I am not aware of a quicker way to reach our destination. Let us assist Slowfix and his people.
Pshkohhh... So uplanders agree to help? Good! Here is what Slowfix wants uplanders to do.
Many golems prowl Idyllshire, get in the way of expansion plans. Slowfix wants uplanders to eliminate golems.
Uplanders are Sharlayan, yes? Sharlayans should know best way to deal with creatures.
So we are to eliminate the golems. That should be a simple enough affair.
The automata were employed as sentinels, and by design can be unmade with a coded command. At the time of the exodus, it was “Noughts and Crosses,” and I see no reason why it should not still work.
Let us divide the task between the three of us, the quicker to be finished with it.
Let us divide the task between the three of us, the quicker to be finished with it.
Let us divide the task between the three of us, the quicker to be finished with it.
Golems are no more? Wonderful!
Now we can resume work to expand settlement!
Pssshkohhh... Uplanders helped gobbieflock, earned right to be citizens of Idyllshire. But Slowfix must ask another favor.
...Another favor, you say?
Short time ago, dear friend of Slowfix ventured into Illuminati territory.
Illuminati are nasty goblins, show no mercy even towards gobbiekin. Slowfix fears for friend's life. Please find friend before Illuminati do.
I am suddenly taken by a sense of foreboding.
Be that as it may, we cannot turn a blind eye. Let us make haste and find Slowfix's friend.
Pshhh... Shkohhh...
Does uplander have lustyeyes for junk of Brayflox? Uplander must not be touching junk of Brayflox! Brayflox is finding junk first!
I knew I recognized that voice... Greetings, Brayflox. It has been a while.
Forgive us for interrupting your work, but Captain Wheiskaet gave me to understand that you are marked by the Illuminati. This happens to be Illuminati-held territory. Is it wise to be here?
Pshhhawww! Brayflox eat Illuminati for sunupses!
