Oh...hello there. Welcome to Mehryde's Meyhane. What can we get you?
We have come not for libations, but rather for information. You are Mihleel, yes?
We are investigating the so-called blasphemy on the satrap's behalf. We hear it was one of your customers─a merchant─that first underwent the transformation. What can you tell us about him?
He...he was something of a regular here, especially of late.
Khalzahl was his name. He ran his own consortium, dealing primarily in the exports of Thavnairian specialties.
It definitely rings a bell. Come to think of it, didn't you meet a Khalzahl when you first came to Thavnair?
If I recall correctly...he ran a trading operation in Yedlihmad. It was through him that the Scions were acquainted with the fisherman Matsya.
Yes, the names ring a bell. Didn't you meet them both on your first trip to Thavnair?
If I recall correctly...Khalzahl ran a trading operation in Yedlihmad, and it was there that you made Matsya's acquaintance.
Yes...that is the same Khalzahl, no doubt. A rather successful man, from what I gather.
That said, it was clear that he had fallen on hard times of late. Those ghastly towers popping up everywhere cannot have been good for business.
Even now, with the towers gone, the collapse of the Empire has led to all sorts of problems elsewhere. The market for luxuries is surely not what it once was...
Trying times for the head of a trading consortium, indeed...
Khalzahl was a compassionate man. Even as his own business suffered, he did what he could to provide for the artisans, fishermen, and many others who counted on him to sell their wares.
Indeed, that was the very topic of yesterday's meeting, as far as I could hear. Yet as they discussed matters further, Khalzahl's tone grew grave and grim... It was then that...that...
Forgive me. I would not have you recall the memory if it brings you pain. If I could, I would ask just one more thing.
Did you notice anything unusual about Khalzahl in particular? Please...anything at all!
Sorry, nothing springs to mind. Perhaps someone else can help you.
Khalzahl lived for his work, and had no family that I know of. His employees and associates knew him best, but...they too are lost to us.
Still, perhaps his neighbors know something I do not. I can direct you to them, if you believe it would help. What do you say?
Thanks to Mihleel, it appears we have a new lead. Let us leave no stone unturned!
Those poor merchants... Turned into frightful beasts, to the last man...
Fortunate that Mehryde and the others were here. Without them, I... Well, I am not sure what I would have done!
Khalzahl made his home in Kama, a nearby residential area.
From what I gather, Khalzahl lived there since childhood and was known throughout the neighborhood.
Kama...the name is new to me. How do we get there?
I'll write down some directions.
I cannot promise that you will find what you seek there, but if nothing else, it is a start.
Come, let's see where this lead takes us.
The residents of Kama should know more of Khalzahl's circumstances.
If we follow Mihleel's directions, we'll be there in no time.
Very well. I will return to the meyhane for the time being. When you are ready to resume the investigation, meet me there.
And with that, we're off! Let us see what we can learn about the merchant Khalzahl.
Forgive me... I know nothing of this “blasphemy,” nor what caused those poor men to take on such hideous forms.
That said, I could tell that Khalzahl cared deeply for his colleagues and clients. He did not seem the sort to willingly damage the trust they placed in him.
Let's see... After leaving the meyhane, we're to retrace our steps and head back towards the aetheryte plaza.
From here, we ascend the stairs...
Ah, this must be Yuj. In which case, we should take the path leading southeast.
If we keep going this way, we should arrive in Kama before long.
Walking these unfamiliar streets is quite the adventure, is it not? I can only hope we can explore Radz-at-Han at our leisure once this crisis has passed.
...And this must be Kama! We've arrived at last!
Let us begin questioning the residents without delay. No doubt someone here can tell us more about Khalzahl.
Given recent events, I imagine many are taking shelter indoors.
To see the streets so empty, I wonder if some residents have fled Radz-at-Han altogether.
