Promise. I would speak with you. Meet me on the western outskirts.
That was a dramatic escalation...
It's hard to believe Zoraal Ja was bested in battle...
I have heard about this channeling art before.
Passed down through a certain clan, it employs arcane implements to produce a smoke from which the mage can conjure a shade.
The First Promise's attendant just now...did his words not strike you as strange?
“I will be the one to reach the golden city.” As though he intends to venture there with or without Zoraal Ja...
The electors we have met thus far have all had their peculiarities, but each we felt would judge claimants equally.
This Zereel Ja, however, seems set in his belief that only blessed siblings are worthy of the throne.
Why would the Dawnservant name an openly biased man elector?
Worrying over Zereel Ja won't get us anywhere. That lady, on the other hand, was the first person to address us with any civility since we arrived.
We should go and meet her─hear what she has to say. The western outskirts, right?
Finally! A real conversation!
To bid us thus meet with her in private... This is both an important and delicate matter.
Whatever her relation to Zereel Ja, I hope we can trust her. We could do with at least one ally in this city.
She looks troubled...
If Zereel Ja is Boonewa and she is Hoobigo, then...
Thank you for coming. My name is Miilal Ja.
Here we may talk freely, away from prying eyes.
And what was it you wished to talk about?
Tell me, what do you think of Mamook?
Well, we don't have much to say yet. No one wants to speak with us.
All who remain in this city are devoted to the traditional ways.
They believe that blessed siblings are superior─that only they are worthy to lead the peoples of this continent. Most would not deign to address outsiders, deeming them beneath notice.
Sounds like an ideal community so far as Bakool Ja Ja is concerned.
...I am tired. Exhausted by this...this senselessness.
There are others like me, but we dare not speak our truth aloud.
Yet now we have an opportunity to reclaim our agency.
For you have bested Bakool Ja Ja.
You─a Xbr'aal, inferior by all presumptions─triumphed over our two-headed champion.
This time, anyway. Next time, I might not be so lucky. Bakool Ja Ja is just that strong.
I seriously don't understand why he cheats so much. It seems to me he'd do better if he just trusted his own abilities.
...He's desperate.
Other blessed siblings have fallen before. This is known.
Other blessed siblings have fallen before. Molaa Ja Ja of the Silverscales, for one. He traveled across the salt in search of conquest, only to be overcome,
But no matter how the individual may falter, the people still believe in blessed siblings' supremacy.
...Because of my father.
He who united Tural under one rule─who in their eyes stands as testament to the tradition's infallibility. Regardless of your father's virtuous intent, his greatest triumph has only fanned the flames of our people's obsession.
However, as both his daughter and claimant to his legacy, your triumph could prove that Gulool Ja Ja's true strength lies not in his birth, but in his character. And in so doing, you may give us the strength to renounce blessed siblings forever.
I can understand wanting to forsake zealotry, but isn't forsaking two-headed Mamool Ja going a bit far?
You must decide that for yourself. Whether the price we pay is worth an empty dream.
“The price we pay”... Is she referring to the marriages between the Hoobigo and Boonewa clans?
What I know about Mamool Ja extremism is limited to what I've heard through rumors. The same is true for most who hail from Xak Tural.
I expect it was for his devotees that Bakool Ja Ja joined the rite of succession.
Gulool Ja Ja labored to break down walls. That his very existence would instead lead some to raise them is unfortunate...
If I can use my status as the Dawnservant's daughter to help the people of Mamook, I'm happy to do so. But I'd like to better understand Miilal Ja's motivations first.
There is a place that will help you to understand our plight.
It lies far to the west of here. Follow me.
You won't find sights like these anywhere else.
Is that a meteorite up there?
Aye. And judging by their attachment, that tree must benefit from the meteorite's unique aether.
Anyway, we should press on. Miilal Ja was anxious for us to see whatever it is she has to show us.
The canopy blocks out the sun so completely, it's as if we're in a room without windows...
A hunting camp, like as not.
I'd love to talk to Mamool Ja hunters and learn about their ways, except they'd probably ignore me...
The others have continued on. Let's catch up to them.
Having seen how dark this forest is, I can understand why so many Mamool Ja chose to live in Tuliyollal instead.
What are we looking at, then?
A cavern. And it looks deep...
I was not aware that such tunnels could be found in the Ja Tiika Heartland. A well-kept secret indeed...
The place I would show you is just ahead.
This is the place you wanted to show us?
It lies just beyond this passage.
Entry to these grounds is not permitted even to the devout.
Nonetheless, I would reveal our secrets to you. Rest assured I shall take full responsibility.
Come. See for yourself the truth of the blessed.
I shouldn't have looked down...
The stone pier yonder... That is our destination.
To erect it there would have been no small feat.
The work of Yok Huy hands, built long, long ago. Our forebears merely altered the entrance.
Altered? To what end?
It will be quicker to show you. We have beasts that can carry us below.
Bakool Ja Ja?
...What, couldn't wait to laugh at the failure?
You've always come here to cry. Ever since you were little.
Mother!
The Third Promise seeks to learn about Mamook. She may be our chance to finally end what we have been powerless to stop.
Talk with her. Tell her...what we have done.
Fine. Perhaps it's only right that we be the ones to speak of it. “Blessed” as we are...
Here.
This vessel holds the remains of a two-headed Mamool Ja. An infant.
We converted the ruins into a cenotaph so the souls of these children wouldn't return as vengeful spirits.
Do you know how blessed siblings are made?
I've heard that they are born to Hoobigo and Boonewa parents.
Such unions between clans were originally arranged to stop infighting. The war against the Xbr'aal was going poorly, and we needed to be united.
Then one day, a child was born. One blessed with two heads...and tremendous power.
When this child grew old enough to lead our army, we became unstoppable. The Xbr'aal had no answer, and we drove them all the way back to the trees above.
That taste of victory awakened our greed. We became obsessed with conceiving more and more of these superior children. No matter the cost...
Of the countless born, most die...trapped in their shells.
Only one in a hundred survive.
If we are “blessed,” it is only because we yet live. Unlike our brothers and sisters who were sacrificed for the glory of Mamook.
That's...horrible...
Of course it's horrible! It's an atrocity we can never take back!
Those children died so that we could live! So we had to succeed, no matter what! To fail would mean it was all for nothing! ...Nothing!
...But I did fail. I squandered their sacrifice.
I...I should never have been born.
You're wrong.
You didn't ask to be born as you are, and─you aren't responsible for your siblings' deaths.
The people obsessed with blessed siblings are. They made their choices...but they don't make yours!
Since when do you let others push you around, Bakool Ja Ja? What do you want? Say it!
I...want it to end.
I don't want any more to die.
Then you have my word. We'll put a stop to this madness.
Blessed siblings are revered by their supporters as a means to achieve dominance in Tural.
If we understand why they harbor such aspirations in the first place, we would be better equipped to treat with them.
Indeed. I just hope they will be open to discourse...
Take me with you. Those fanatics treat my words as gospel.
No. There will be trouble if your father finds out you're still here.
Moxutural Zooj─there we will gather the people, and ask anything the Third Promise wishes to know.
Then take one of my scales, one that blends the Hoobigo and Boonewa coloring. It'll serve as proof that you have our trust.
People will do as you say if you show it to them.
I'm sorry. For what I've said...and done. I don't expect your forgiveness.
You had your reasons. I'm glad I could know them.
Which is to say...you're not a complete alpaca's ass.
Thanks, Wuk Lamat.
Well, maybe it's for the best. Hatred is exhausting, after all.
Indeed. So let us make the most of our newfound friendship and bring together the people of Mamook. We have much to discover.
Hey, Forename... Before we rejoin the others, can we talk for a moment?
I really hated him, you know. Bakool Ja Ja. With every fiber of my being.
He tried to ruin Ihih'hana, sabotaged us on the river, kidnapped me for my keystone, and released the most vicious tural vidraal of all time! Anything he could do to cause us pain, he did!
Never in a million years would I forgive him...
But the moment I understood why he did what he did─the pain he's been carrying this whole time─all my anger just...evaporated.
I hear you. Bakool Ja Ja's motives don't absolve him of his crimes. He must answer for them, like anyone else.
But right now, my duty is to ensure that no one in Mamook feels desperate enough to go to such lengths ever again.
Anyway, thanks for listening. Now that I've voiced that, I feel readier for the challenges ahead. Come on, let's head back to the city!
I had no idea Bakool Ja Ja was bearing such a burden. Had he but chosen a different path...
Still, I believe our true character is demonstrated not by right action, but rather by our conduct upon recognizing our faults. It is a struggle I know all too well...
...Sometimes it's best to just forgive and move on. It can be difficult─gods, don't I know it─but that's all the more reason to try your damndest to look past how you were wronged and let bygones be bygones.
It's amazing how Wuk Lamat can connect with anyone. She has an incredible gift.
To think that there was such a dark secret behind blessed siblings... Even among the Mamool Ja, I cannot imagine many know the whole truth─especially not those who reside in the capital.
Bakool Ja Ja's scale represents his faith in us.
We won't fail him or his people.
The only way to help Mamook is to understand Mamook. We won't let Bakool Ja Ja down!
We haven't a moment to lose.
According to Miilal Ja, Moxutural Zooj is an abandoned settlement northwest of the city. It should afford us the privacy we require.
We must work quickly, lest Zereel Ja discover our intentions. Fortunately, Bakool Ja Ja thought to give us additional scales, so we might cover more ground in less time.
Everyone should take one and get going. Use them to gather as many people as you can.
Forename, let's retrace our steps. Maybe this time we can convince folks to lend an ear.
Look! I've already made a new friend!
...
...That scale. If the blessed trust you, then so will I.
So, what is it that you require of me?
Bakool Ja Ja bids us come to Moxutural Zooj?
A strange place for an assembly, but very well. I will not refuse he who fights for our dreams.
Did I not tell you to move along? I can't be seen talking with the likes of you!
A blessed scale? In an outsider's hands? ...What business do you have with me?
So Bakool Ja Ja sent you to call an assembly... I'm not sure what to make of this, but I shall go to Moxutural Zooj at once.
Have you managed to gather some of the good folks?
Wonderful! The esteemed Bakool Ja Ja will be pleased. This fellow here will be coming to Moxutural Zooj as well.
Apparently, there's a najool nursery to the west called Golmajiik Grove. Could you go and see who you can talk to there as well?
I'll meet you in Moxutural Zooj afterwards. There's just one more person I need to find!
