Thank you...Queen Sphene...
It's my pleasure, Milos. I'll be back soon, so be a good boy. For your mother and for me.
To think that there was such an illness...
Queen Sphene is so wonderfully kind. She's always willing to listen. In many ways she feels like family. I know it must sound ridiculous...
Uh... Ah...
My thanks for accompanying me on the visit.
The illness is a part of life in Alexandria, and I thought that you should know about it.
We'll find a cure one day, mark my words. We'll make it so unfortunate children like Milos smile again.
To think that they had such a problem...
Well, let's continue the tour, shall we?
Look, you obviously have duties to attend to─citizens to look after. We can stop here if you like.
No, no. I do this because I want to, so please do not worry.
Next, I'll show you one of the district's most vital facilities, a place called Resolution. To reach it, we'll need to go by way of leynode nine, where the aetheryte is situated.
<gulp> D-Don't tell me we need to use that now?
The conveyor ahead will transport you to the government sector, where Resolution is located.
The markings on a conveyor indicate its direction, and there is a pair just like it on the other side.
I-Is it safe?
Extremely. There's no need to be afraid.
Wh-Who said I was afraid? Come on, Forename!
N-Nothing to it, eh? A child's amusement ride!
And here we are─Resolution, the operational heart of Solution Nine.
From Resolution we oversee the running of the district and provide essential services to citizens, such as welfare support and job introductions.
It's quicker to show than tell, so let's proceed inside.
Strange contraptions everywhere you look...
What's that?
An infusion station. It dispenses souls in exchange for credits.
Through hard work, citizens can obtain the peace of mind provided by spare souls. It's the way of life for Alexandrians and has been for quite some time.
But I imagine it must be difficult for outsiders to comprehend.
That's putting it lightly. To be honest, it sounds disturbing.
Still, I won't dismiss it out of hand. Practices like these don't arise from nothing.
There's a reason why your culture is the way it is, and I'd like to understand. Won't you tell us some of your realm's history?
Very well. Be warned, though, that it may take a while.
In the distant past─over a thousand years ago, it's said─lightning energy began to swell in our world.
According to ancient records that date back around eight centuries, the rainy season spanned a quarter of the year, during which time severe thunderstorms ravaged the land.
Four centuries later, this season had lengthened to nearly half the year.
The trend continued, with our ancestors spending longer and longer languishing beneath storm clouds. Crops failed and livestock starved.
But amidst this growing desperation, a miraculous material was discovered that promised salvation: electrope.
The stuff that's used everywhere here.
Indeed. One day, when out inspecting a forest after lightning had caused a fire, a villager came upon a curious black ore none had seen before.
Testing revealed that the ore possessed a singular property: it could store lightning and convert it to other energies. In that instant, the scourge of endless storms became a blessing.
Dubbed electrope, the ore found use in myriad inventions and dramatically improved people's lives.
So much so, in fact, that all nations soon became dependent upon it─despite the difficulty of obtaining it in quantity.
Supply was chronically scarce. And when nations couldn't meet their needs with their own deposits, some resorted to taking electrope from others...
Fighting was isolated and sporadic─until electrope came to be used in warfare. First in the weaponry of invaders, then in the countermeasures of defenders, and then in every aspect of combat where an advantage might be had.
This served only to exacerbate the ore shortage, leading to further escalation. Before long, the entire world was engulfed in a terrible war known as the Storm Surge.
As the war came to a head, Alexandria's neighbor Lindblum committed its stores of electrope to the production of a weapon of mass destruction.
They deployed it on the front lines...and triggered a calamity of frightful magnitude. Not even their own scientists had anticipated the force of the lightning that was unleashed. The energy inundated the entire continent, laying it to waste.
So that's how your world came to be this way...
You truly know a great many things that I don't. I should like to learn about you too sometime.
But to continue the tale... The people of Alexandria had already lost much to the war. They lost almost everything else to the levin.
Those who survived bore deep scars, tormented by the memory of loved ones taken too soon. Though they yet lived, the cruel specter of death was with them always.
Seeking a solution, our scientists turned once more to electrope. And after extensive research, they developed the means to preserve memory and soul.
Physical death isn't the end. So long as our memories endure, we may live on...
This belief sustained us then, and it sustains us now, granting us comfort.
That's quite a tale...
