So you are the adventurer of whom I've heard so much.
Well met, friend. My name is Minfilia, and I lead the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.
I have awaited your coming.
Please, be at ease. You are among friends here.
No doubt you're ripe to burst with questions, but have patience─all will be revealed in time.
First, let me begin by telling you who we are and what we do.
We are the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, an order that transcends political boundaries. Our single objective is the preservation of the future of Eorzea.
Among our gravest concerns are the godlike beings known as the primals.
Their existence is a bane upon Eorzea─nay, the world at large, and we have striven to find a lasting solution to the threat they pose.
Our order is home to a number of individuals who, like you, possess a rare and special talent.
This talent takes various forms, but one holds particular interest for us.
Tell me, have you ever experienced a sudden, inexplicable loss of consciousness?
Have you ever had the sensation of being pulled away from reality? Felt as though you were hovering in space, a mind without a body?
All these things are the manifestations of your talent. Yours is the power to transcend the boundaries of the soul─a power known as the Echo.
The Echo allows you to pass through the walls of a man's soul, and hear the resonations of his past.
You will be there in his memories, and see things as he saw them. You may even interact with that which you see, though you cannot change the outcome of events.
For another blessing, the Echo will enable you to know a man's mind even if you cannot comprehend his words.
In short, the Echo is a truly extraordinary power. And this power is strong within you.
It is only a shame that we cannot use it whensoever we choose.
That's right. I too possess the Echo.
With that established, let us return to the subject of the primals.
So long as they exist, the realm cannot take so much as a single step towards true peace.
Measures must be taken─measures which transcend boundaries, be they of faction, race, language, or creed. And to do so, the Scions require the aid of those with our talent.
Make no mistake─the Echo will be instrumental in dealing with the primal threat. Without it, we cannot hope to save the realm.
I know not what it is you desire for yourself, nor what it was that first brought you to Eorzea.
But I firmly believe that the power we possess was given to us for a purpose.
Why else would the gods entrust man with a gift so extraordinary, if not to have him use it?
And so I implore you: lend us your power.
Naturally, your aid will not go unrewarded. We are fortunate to have a number of influential allies, and at a word from me, they will gladly afford you certain privileges that might otherwise be denied you.
The right to employ retainers, for example. Are you familiar with them? They are individuals who may be relied upon to manage your assets and belongings on your behalf.
The papers you requested, my lady.
Thank you, Tataru.
The pleasure is mine, my lady!
By way of a welcoming gift, I have taken the liberty of adding your name to the retainers' registry. As of now, you are entitled to employ the services of a retainer.
You will need to consult a retainer vocate regarding the particulars of this arrangement, but believe me when I say that retainers will prove invaluable to you in your adventuring endeavors.
Let this gesture serve as evidence of our commitment to do all in our power to facilitate your personal objectives.
In return, we ask that you aid us to the fullest extent of your talents.
A mutually beneficial relationship, I am sure you will agree, and one which serves the greater good besides.
Well, that was a veritable lecture, was it not? Forgive me, but it is important that all concerned are aware of what is expected of them. Now you know our purpose, and what we can offer you, I invite you to consider joining us. When you have come to a decision, you may tell me without fear of censure.
In good faith, I shall entrust you with our order's password, which our members use to reach one another when afield.
It is “wild rose.” Pray keep it safe.
We Scions have but one objective: to safeguard the future of Eorzea. Among our gravest concerns are the godlike beings known as the primals. Long have we striven to find a lasting solution to the threat they pose.
I know not what it is you desire for yourself, nor what it was that first brought you to Eorzea, but I firmly believe that the power we possess was given to us for a purpose. Pray consider this when you give me your answer, Forename.
Small? No. Worthy? Undeniably. We labor for the good of all the realm.
They are. Yet the risks we take are justified, given that which is at stake.
I take it you will help us.
Wonderful! I knew you wouldn't let us down!
But come, I would introduce you to your friends in the order.
Tell me, does the name Sharlayan ring any bells?
It used to be one of Eorzea's six city-states, and was situated in the northwest of Aldenard.
The Sharlayans were the keepers of wisdom both old and new. Their mastery over magic and aether was unsurpassed, and even the Garleans knew to fear them.
Among their number, there were a noble few who devoted their lives to safeguarding the future of Eorzea.
When the realm began its descent into chaos, and their countrymen fled for the motherland, they alone chose to remain here. These noble men and women were called the Archons.
Those same brave souls stand before you now.
The masked woman is Yda, and beside her is Papalymo. The two are charged with surveying the Twelveswood.
Hello there!
Well come!
I had every confidence that you would agree to help us.
Me too!
Okay, my turn to introduce someone! That there is Thancred!
He is our man here in Ul'dah, jewel of the desert.
Welcome to the team!
If I may, the lovely maiden beside me is named Y'shtola. Limsa Lominsa has the pleasure of being under her care.
Greetings.
Last but not least is Urianger, who presides over all affairs within these halls. Pray seek him out whenever you have questions.
