To what do I owe this honor...?
You have that little axe for me?
Thanks! Now to see what we can get for it...
You're Miplu, the owner of these fields? I have a mind to trade, if you're interested.
Well, well, the Third Promise! I might be convinced to entertain a proposal. What do you have on offer?
This hatchet! Forged by a seasoned artisan, the razor edge of this exceptional tool will make light work of your crops!
Hrm... The quality is acceptable, I suppose. I offer you a large sack of mate leaves in exchange.
A sack of mate leaves is valued at one pel in the thousands column─the same price as the hatchet. This deal would bring us no closer to the mezcal...
If I may, Mistress Miplu. It's harvesting season, is it not? Does not the demand for hatchets afford them a higher value?
It is indeed the season. Which is why I procured an ample batch of tools well in advance.
We've missed the window for demand... In that case, we'll have to fall back on connections.
Think of it this way! A generous deal here will put you in the Third Promise's good graces. Surely that's worthy of consideration?
I do not wish to give offense, but I must tell you that I stand with the Second Promise. His innovations will improve every aspect of our lives, I believe─including farming. And I will no longer have need of hatchets.
I assure you that I have nothing but respect for Wuk Lamat. That is why I'm prepared to purchase a spare hatchet at a fair price.
I-I suppose it is fair given your reasons. But we ourselves would be no better off for the transaction...
How about this, then. If we were to help bring in your harvest, would you give us a better deal?
As a matter of fact, I would! Until Koana's reforms come about, I can always use more hands in the fields.
Then you can go ahead and add our labor to the bargain!
Added value to tip the scales... How could I have forgotten one of the most basic rules of trading?
You can rest here if you like, Mablu. Forename and I have mate to gather!
Oh no, I'm helping too!
Off to the fields, then, and mind you pick the healthy leaves. I'll take five good bundles from each of you.
I wasn't sure Miplu would bite, but it goes to show that you never know until you try!
Did you see how Wuk Lamat came to my rescue there? She really is good with people...
You've brought me some leaves, then?
An acceptable harvest. We'll see how your companions fared before I make any decisions, though.
Here, we've brought our share as well.
Thank you, Third Promise. This is more than enough to hold up your end of the bargain.
Now it's time to honor mine. After adding the value of your labor to the price of the hatchet...
I am prepared to offer you a full sack of our highest-grade mate leaves!
Premium mate! Bought at the shop, one sack of those leaves would cost no less than five pel in the thousands column!
Then we can bid farewell to this hatchet.
I'll give it a good home. Talk of the contest aside, I'm glad we could come to a mutually agreeable trade.
As am I! All the best with the rest of your harvest!
Mablu? What's wrong?
It's as I was saying before... Even after everything Tobli's done for me, I'm planning to abandon it all and become a merchant.
But then I needed your help after forgetting a basic rule of trade. How can I expect Tobli to accept my decision then...?
Not exactly. I wanted to prove I could succeed as a peddler before I declared my intentions...
I can't! After getting a taste of real trading, I want to be a merchant more than ever!
Then you'll just have to be honest.
I seek to follow in my father's footsteps, but not because he expects it of me. I want to preserve Tural's peace, and becoming Dawnservant happens to be the best way to do it.
You should live a life of your own choosing, and I wouldn't be surprised if Tobli held the same opinion. So talk to him.
...You're right! It's better to find out for sure than worry over what he might say! Thank you for the advice.
But first, we have a saddle to buy. I want that success under my belt so I can be sure of my decision!
What's next, then? We try to trade our tea leaves for something halfway to ten thousand pel?
No, I think we're close enough now. I say we go straight for the premium mezcal!
Bargain our way into double the value, eh? Think you can do it?
Trust me! I will make this trade work!
I admire you, Third Promise. That you're holding your own against such strong competition for the throne is inspiring!
Uh... Am I really holding my own against Koana and Zoraal Ja...?
I-I mean, of course I am! I'm Wuk Lamat of the Dawn's Promise, after all!
I-I mean, of course I am! I'm Wuk Lamat of the Dawn's Promise, after all!
I've never been one to take it slow. Once I have a goal in mind, it's full speed ahead! That's who I am!
Before we go, let me give you the mate leaves. I don't need to risk proving Erenville's point...
Ready, then? Our next stop is the mezcal distillery!
Oof, the smell of mezcal is overpowering. The fumes alone are making me dizzy...
We'll want to speak with a man by the name of Gobli. Even among his fellow distillers, he's regarded as a master of the craft.
He knows the value of his product, so if we're to convince him to trade for twice what the leaves are worth, we're going to need targeted information. That means asking around and taking in the gossip!
If you could talk to people here in the distillery, Forename, perhaps Wuk Lamat could do the same at the village entrance.
Meanwhile, I'll head to the north side and see what I can learn!
Glean any useful information?
