Can you see them too, my love...?
Ye see them lights down 'Awker's alley, dearie? Decorations fer the festival, they are.
Every year, when the streets are all decked out fer the Risin', me 'eart fills with...well, all kinds o' feelin's. Sorrow, pride. Regret...
But enough about me! We came 'ere to find out 'ow the other folks feel about it. Let's split up, head down the alley, and ask a few likely-lookin' customers each.
We're on a schedule 'ere, so don't go askin' every single soul ye see. Four or five should do ye. I'll meet ye down by the ferry docks when ye're done!
Sorry to bother ye, dearie, but if I could be so bold...would ye mind tellin' me what the Risin' means to ye?
Welcome, welcome! What may I interest you in this fine morningdayevening?
...Ah, information, is it? Well, if you really must know, the whizzing and banging that fills the air this season always takes me back to the time just before the Calamity struck.
A great festival was held to celebrate the reformation of the Grand Companies. People in the streets were hooting, and hollering, and setting off firespouts, and all the ships in the bay, now bedecked in Maelstrom colors, let loose their cannons.
It seems so foolish now, knowing what was soon to befall us. But all that noise served a purpose nonetheless─drowning out the fear that ever whispered in our ears.
It is my firm belief that the Rising fireworks serve the same purpose even now─they present a vision of loveliness, of togetherness, that we might forget our fears and be given hope for a brighter future.
Aesthetics, my dear girlboy. That's what we need. A dash of true beauty to drive the shadows from our hearts and give us hope for the future.
The streets are full o' life, the sky's full o' fire, and the westerly wind's fillin' our seafarer's sails as it does our 'earts. Ahhh, I couldn't've picked a better time to come home. You a sailor too, are you?
...Helpin' with the fireworks, ye say? Good on ye, lasslad. Aye, I've a few memories o' back then, if you've an ear to 'ear 'em.
I'm a merchant seaman, ye see, always sailin' hither an' thither across the waves. Was just back from a trip to Radz-at-Han when the Calamity struck.
Everyone was lookin' up to the sky, and that loathsome lantern that 'ung low in it.
Like most folk, I don't remember much o' what 'appened in the days before or after it fell, but I'll never forget those faces.
And that's what I love so much about the fireworks. Ye see the same faces lookin' up, but this time with a smile─reminds ye not only o' the bad times, but 'ow we got over 'em.
'Course, 'alf the folk who were watchin' Dalamud back then ain't with us no more. But they'll be watching the fireworks too, an' I reckon they'll bring the same smile to their faces as they do ours.
Alright there. Anything I can do for you?
...You're asking for people's thoughts on the Rising fireworks? Heh! You adventurers don't half pick up some odd jobs.
...You're asking for people's thoughts on the Rising fireworks? Heh! Would've thought a great hero like you would have better things to do with your time...but I suppose that's what makes you a hero, eh? Helping people out whichever way you can.
Well...I'm like most people, I suppose. I think of those I lost.
My parents, most of all. I wonder if they're watching, too.
Swum up from the bottom of the aetherial sea to see what all the crashing and banging's about.
It's complicated, I suppose. I feel sad they're gone, but happy I'm not─and grateful to Baderon saving me and so many others.
If they are watching, I hope they can see me, too. See that I'm doing alright for myself, that they might sleep soundly for another twelvemonth.
I didn't learn this till long after he'd taken me in, but after the Calamity, Baderon banded together some old allies from his mercenary days and a few willing adventurers. They'd go round seeking out people like me who'd lost everything and try and put them back on their feet.
I just made his job easier, drinking myself stupid and puking my guts out in his gutter. Maybe I should get him a little something by way of thanks...
Can you see them too, my love? ...Hm?
...You're involved with the fireworks, and want to know what I think of them? Well, just now I was wondering if they can be seen from far out in the offing. Do you know?
...I see. The reason I ask is that my husband is out there now. He meant to be back by Rising night, but it seems the tide didn't turn in his favor.
He was so looking forward to the fireworks. I do hope that he can see them from where he is─that we can share them together, no matter how far apart we might be.
That is my only request to you: that you make the finale as bright and boisterous as you can, that all those who cannot be together this Rising might still share in its message.
There are many like me who cannot be with their loved ones this Rising─whether by chance, or by tragedy. It is the fireworks that bring them together─so the louder and brighter they are, the better.
Sorry to keep ye waitin', dearie. So, what did ye find out?
Hmmm... Same 'ere. Was 'alf expectin' 'em to just like lookin' at the pretty lights, but it seems the feelin' runs a lot deeper than that.
The memories o' the Calamity still sit 'eavy on their 'earts, but the Risin' fireworks go some way to liftin' that weight.
So, any ideas fer the grand display? What kind o' thing d'ye reckon'd 'elp lift those spirits the most?
That'd do the job, alright! Ain't a Lominsan among us who ain't got a drop of pirate blood in her veins! Lightin' up the skies with buccaneerin' abandon would be just the way to put our own stamp on this year's festival!
Aye, ye might be right there. It's the same with folk as it is with ships─ye need to know where ye've come from to know where ye're goin'. A reminder of times past might be just the ticket.
Hope fer the future, eh? That ain't a bad idea. Remindin' folk that however dark the night, dawn is just around the corner.
The Risin' ain't just about mournin' those we lost, after all. It's about rememberin' the struggles of those who survived, to steer us to a brighter future.
Aye, that's it... That's what Limsa needs this Risin'...
Ships. Cannons. A departure salute. Not just fer the fallen, but fer those settin' sail fer unknown shores. A vision o' the past, and o' the future...
An 'ole bleedin' armada filling Galadion Bay, lightin' up the very 'eavens! Who wouldn't want to watch that?
That's settled, then! Ah, the minstrel's goin' to love it! 'E said 'e'd be up by the Aftcastle, right? I'll see ye there!
Let's see, now... Fifteen 'undred weight of firesand, at five 'undred yalms from shore... Reckon we're goin' to need more ships.
Our intrepid adventurer returns─and positively bursting with inspiration, I take it?
...I see. A traditional seafaring salute, not only to the memories of the fallen, but to the future fortune of those who follow in their wake. A most fitting proposal, I'm sure.
Thanks, the both o' ye...but our work ain't done yet. There's a lot needs sortin' out before we can put this idea into action. So much to do, so little time!
If ye wouldn't mind 'elpin' us a little longer, dearie, I'd be forever in yer debt. Let me know when ye've got yer loins good and girded!
A display of such grandeur is not merely a matter of crafting the fireworks proper. We shall require the cooperation of a great many people─several of whom may be less than disposed to offer it.
Right, then. Let's get started, shall we, dearie?
The plan is, we're goin' to line up an 'ole fleet o' ships across the bay, an' 'ave 'em fire a broadside into the sky!
But before we go about findin' our fleet, we need to get the plan approved by the organizin' committee, and that means convincin' Commodore Reyner.
I'll take the lead, but I ain't exactly got the silverest tongue, nor much experience nobblin' with the 'igher-ups. If you two see me strugglin', put in a word, won't ye?
Of course, milady. Your cause is ours.
Thank ye, me dears! Together then, to the Coral Tower!
Commodore Reyner worked 'is way up the ranks, all the way from rock bottom to the tippity top. 'E knows the workin's o' the thalassocracy in an' out, so any flaws in our proposal, an' 'e'll see right through 'em...
Last I had the privilege of meeting with the Commodore was around the time of the Calamity. I had been arrested for conspiracy to incite rebellion. Naturally, it was all a misunderstanding.
Some other scurrilous soul had been singing songs of sedition. If not for Reyner and his relentless pursuit of the truth, I might still be lingering in the brig. He is a shrewd investigator who will brook no equivocation. Shall we, then?
Wanting to make the Rising display special I can fathom, but the sheer scale of this proposal is beyond anything I imagined.
Ayoyo, need I remind you that the first duty of the Yellowjackets is the keeping of the peace?
Filling the bay with ships will not only disturb the daily workings of the harbor, but is sure to foment agitation among the commons. Knowing this, do you still mean to persevere with this outlandish plan?
I do, Commander.
Every Lominsan 'eart, every Eorzean 'eart, still bears the scars o' the Calamity. All that loss, that 'ardship, that struggle...it cut deep.
But the Risin' ain't just about lookin' to the past, it's about lookin' to the future, too. An' if it's our duty to watch over folk─keep 'em on the strait and narrow, like─I reckon it's our duty to see 'em off on another year's journey, too.
...Well put.
I accept that your intentions are pure, but what of the logistics? I trust you have a plan as to who exactly will be providing─and paying for─this fleet of yours.
Yes, Commander. We're goin' to petition the Maelstrom for the flagship, and the rest from, er...the Black Sails.
O-Of course. One is wont to forget that those buccaneering souls remain bound to serve the Maelstrom in times of necessity. Lady Ayoyo would have us parley with the three great pirate captains and remind them of their civic duty...it seems.
Aye, that's right. The pirates answered the Admiral's call back when the moon was fallin'. Fought an' died at Carteneau, same as the rest of us.
When they 'ear about our plan to salute all those who fell, an' all those who didn't, I don't doubt they'll answer the call again.
Hm! I wish you all the luck in the world in recruiting those rogues to your cause. You shall need it.
Very well, then. Allow me to arrange the parley. Should you succeed in this feat, you may consider all of my remaining doubts answered.
I bid you remember that you go to speak with pirates. Lawless marauders all. Pray that you do not say aught to offend them, lest we find ourselves with a mutiny on our hands.
I shall have the Maelstrom summon the leaders of the three factions to the Anchor Yard. Pray go there and complete your preparations.
The Rising is a time of remembrance. A time for us all to reflect on what we lost, and what we gained, when Dalumud fell. It gladdens me that my young officers should not forget the pirates' sacrifice.
We are to parley with pirates! Truly, life is but a succession of unexpected events.
Cheers for stickin' with me, you twolads. I 'ope I can count on yer support in the next set o' negotiations an' all.
Of course, my lady. Alas, I fear the captains─those far-famed scourges of the seas─will prove rather less biddable partners than Commodore Reyner did.
While Rhoswen of the Sanguine Sirens may be swayed by emotion, Carvallain of the Kraken's Arms is of a much more mercenary mind. The Executioners, meanwhile, value honor and glory above all else.
If there is aught that unites them, it is a zealous spirit. Let us argue with passion, that we might inflame theirs.
If it's passion ye're after, I've got that in bleedin' bucketloads!
But I might need you two to jump in again, 'case me tongue decides to tie itself in an 'alf 'itch. Just say the first thing that comes into yer 'eads, an' I'll pick up after.
Come on then, dearies, let's 'ead on over to the Anchor Yard an' get this parley started!
Thanks fer comin'. The reason we asked ye here is─
Aye, the Maelstrom's summons laid it out fer us loud an' clear. Ye want us to 'elp ye with the Risin' fireworks.
An' the answer's no! When my Sirens fire a broadside, it's to send our enemies to the bottom o' the briny, not to paint pretty pictures in the sky for drylanders to gawp at. We've better things to be doin' with our time.
'Tis a rare occurrence, to be sure, but I find that my opinion aligns with Rhoswen's. Our time is precious, as I am sure is yours. Let us hasten to draw these discussions to a close.
I shall put it bluntly. I see no profit in this endeavor for myself and my men. So unless there is anything else...?
I did not come here to be insulted. If you know of a method by which the Krakens might stand to gain from this that I do not, then state it, or else hold your tongue. Or better yet, allow me to hold it for you.
A debt of gratitude, perhaps, for providing the men and material for this pageantry entirely at our own expense. I saw no mention of the Krakens being compensated for our efforts in a material sense...or am I mistaken?
If you should require my men and I to shackle ourselves to the Sirens, we should require even greater recompense.
The sheer scale of the spectacle we propose would no doubt draw all the lords and ladies of the realm to gather in the city. Personages of high renown, and deep pockets.
Aye, an' if they saw you lot workin' 'and in 'and with the Maelstrom, it'd do wonders fer yer public image. Folks who normally wouldn't touch a pirate with a bargepole'd be queuein' up to do business with ye!
I do believe you have a point, poorly phrased though it might be. To win legitimate business, one must project the image of a legitimate businessman.
Sod yer image! An' sod anyone who's too lily-livered to trade with us! They can stick their bargepoles up their backsides! What's in it for the Sirens?
Hah! You do realize our days o' pillagin' every ship we see are long gone? Quarry my arse.
Look, I enjoy the fireworks as much as anyone, I just don't see why it's got to be us what puts 'em on. We're pirates, not...vaudy-villains!
Wh-Wh-Wh─
Wh-What're ye tryin' to imply? I'd rather cut me arse off with a rusty cutlass than 'ave to spend another minute in that preenin' pissant's company! Me an' my girls are proper pirates!
The Sanguine Sirens ain't all about the piratin' life, though, are ye? Ye run almshouses for the sick an' injured, an' those with child. Keep 'emselves busy with odd jobs, such as come their way.
Them's yer 'unters, an' the folk who're drawn to the city to see the grand display, yer quarry.
Ahhh, I see where yer goin' with this. Get the girls to set up stalls sellin' food an' grog an' the like, an' they'd make a killin'─providin' they 'ad all the right permits from the Yellowjackets. Ye're a shrewd one, you!
Maybe I could lend 'em an 'and meself. They do say the best way to a man's heart is through his stoma─ <cough cough cough>
What of the Executioners? There is no dishonor in linking arms with Admiral Merlwyb and the Maelstrom, surely?
