Well, now. Which of these gullible fools shall be my next victim?
You! I... I...
He's getting away! Go get him, miss!
You again!? Wh-Why are you pursuing me!?
Sedition!? Treason!? Revolution!? Th-That's preposterous!
Who has filled your head with these lies? Refugees? The selfsame refugees who terrorized the streets of Ul'dah? Hah!
You have no evidence to prove your accusations! None!
N-No, I will not accompany you to the Hall of Flames. You have no right to detain me...
F-F-For the sake of argument, let us say I did do the things you claim. Surely you don't think I give a Qiqirn's arse about politics? It was business─only business.
We both know I am not the one you want. However, if you agree to protect me, I swear I shall tell you everything.
What's all this commotion!?
Seven hells...
Tell the others to spread out and search the area. The killer may still be close.
Hold, adventurer. I would know more about your relationship with the victim, as well as the events leading up to his death.
This man was responsible for the recent riots? Mayhap we owe his murderer a debt of gratitude.
In any case, it is obvious you are not the one whom we seek. You may carry on with your investigation, Scion.
What news, Forename? Where is the merchant?
Murdered!? Damn it all to the seventh hell!
He was not simply murdered, Forename─he was silenced. Too many knew his face, and he was ready to divulge his secrets.
Do not despair, though. We may be closer to identifying the true orchestrator of these riots than you realize.
The Flame General left word that you were to proceed to the Fragrant Chamber as soon as you returned. He wishes to discuss your recent discoveries, as well as the results of our own investigation.
Master Alphinaud has already been informed and should be waiting for you outside. Pray proceed to the Royal Promenade with all haste and speak with Bartholomew.
We have been expecting you, madam. Please proceed inside.
Commander Swift has kept us apprised of your recent activities. You've made great strides towards quelling the violence.
Despite our best efforts to determine what provoked this uprising, the truth continues to elude us. Have you uncovered aught which might shed some light on the mystery?
This information does not leave this room.
The Syndicate's decision to reject the Doman refugees' appeal for asylum had lasting repercussions. A number of those displaced by the Calamity claimed it was proof of a policy of discrimination.
Together with a group of Ala Mhigan refugees, they organized a series of demonstrations to protest against the sultanate.
Demonstrations which became heated, but did not descend into violence.
Until a certain incident served as a call to arms.
A unit of Brass Blades sent to supervise a demonstration loosed arrows upon unarmed protesters.
It was this atrocity which prompted the refugees to take up arms. I need not tell you what followed.
We assumed at first that the attack was born of a miscommunication. When emotions run high, they happen. But suspicions were raised regarding the unit's commanding officer, whom I ordered interrogated.
Sure enough, our fears were soon confirmed. The dog confessed that a merchant had offered him coin to give the order─a merchant in the employ of Teledji Adeledji.
Teledji Adeledji?
But he spoke in favor of the Domans' cause, and has ever seemed sympathetic towards the refugees' plight. Why would he do such a thing?
Know you of the Carteneau Reclamation Bill?
It is a proposal to annex the Carteneau Flats so that refugees may establish permanent settlements.
When last I looked, that was disputed territory.
Aye. Some might even call it a battlefield.
The destruction wrought by Bahamut was greatest at the Carteneau Flats. That much is common knowledge.
What is less well known is that his rampage laid bare ancient Allagan ruins, of which no record existed.
There are certain...differences of opinion as to how these ruins should be handled, which is why each nation maintains a military presence in the region to this day.
Yet differ though we may, we are still allies. Therefore, in the interest of preserving the Eorzean Alliance, we have reached an agreement.
Any conflict which may arise during the course of military exercises in the region shall have no bearing on relations between our nations.
In full knowledge of this delicate state of affairs, Teledji Adeledji proposed the Carteneau Reclamation Bill.
A shameless bloody ruse which stands to benefit him in but one conceivable way.
If successful, he will gain control over the disputed territory, under the guise of assisting in the resettlement effort. And you can be sure he'll build an orphanage next to every Allagan ruin.
The man would threaten the unity of the Eorzean Alliance and risk countless lives for personal gain!
He walks a path all his own, independent of any faction, and beholden to none of his fellows on the Syndicate.
By inciting the less fortunate to violence, he hopes to convince others that the Carteneau Reclamation Bill is the only viable solution.
His sympathy for the plight of the Domans was naught but posturing to gain credibility with the refugees. Of that there can be no doubt.
Forgive me, but what could possibly motivate Teledji Adeledji to go to such lengths? What is so special about these ruins that he would risk his position on the Syndicate, and, most likely, charges of treason against the sultanate?
Omega...
Pardon?
An Allagan monstrosity, not unlike the Ultima Weapon. Mayhap larger. We know not. It has yet to be fully excavated.
Allagan inscriptions indicate that it was created to fell Bahamut himself.
If accurate, it might explain why Nael van Darnus chose to bring the red moon down upon the Carteneau Flats.
Given the ends he went to to ensure Eorzea's annihilation, destroying the one weapon which could stay the elder primal may well have seemed like good sense.
When first I bore witness to the power of the Ultima Weapon, I doubted the evidence of my senses... And now you tell me there is another such weapon─one which could contend with Bahamut. Bahamut.
Aye. We were skeptical ourselves. Truth be told, until the Ultima Weapon's existence came to light, we thought the inscription had been mistranslated.
At present, Omega is more akin to a fossil than a tool of war, having long since ceased to function. As such, its true potential cannot accurately be gauged.
However, if someone were to restore it, as the Garleans did the Ultima Weapon, I have little doubt that he would wield untold power.
Power enough to subjugate Ul'dah, like as not, and the rest of Eorzea besides─which is doubtless why Teledji Adeledji yearns to have it.
That he should aspire to world domination... He who has ever walked two paces behind Lord Lolorito in matters of commerce.
'Tis in acknowledgement of his own limitations that he seeks this power. Woe betide us all should we allow him to have it.
Pray waste no time chasing rats. Only a fool would believe that secrets can be kept in Ul'dah.
It would seem the implications of the sultanate's refugee problem are rather more far-reaching than we assumed...
I should be glad to know the truth, and yet...the thought that all this chaos was the product of one man's lust for power sickens me.
How long do you think they intended to hide the existence of Omega from the Scions? That they even felt the need to do so is most troubling.
It would be in our best interests to learn more of the military activities in the disputed territories. Fortunately, you are already well positioned to do so, Captain Surname. Pray keep us informed of any developments in Carteneau.
