Fools playing at heroes, all of you. Is this how you believe you can save your world?
We can and will, Ascian! You shall see─or perhaps you will not!
So you are the Warrior of Light. The savior of Eorzea.
It's a wonder you didn't come sooner, what with the primal and all. Lost a step, have we?
Have care. The aether moves strangely around him.
It would seem we share a common enemy. Mayhap you would tell us who you are?
...Shall we show them?
Not very sporting of you to interrupt, but so be it.
Mark well our faces, Warrior of Light, for we are the Warriors of Darkness. Walkers of a different path. And we shall meet again.
Warriors of Darkness? ...Really?
Thancred! Are you all right?
Pleasantries can wait. I'd rather not be here when the Gnath arrive. Agreed?
Suffice it to say, our reunion was not at all as I pictured it. Waiting until the last instant to join the fray. 'Tis plain you have not lost your appetite for the dramatic.
My appetite for the dramatic!? Have you forgotten the circumstances of our parting? The heroic last stand, the tunnel filling with light, and then... <sigh>
Had I known you intended to use forbidden magicks to deliver me to some godsforsaken wilderness...
...I would have thanked you in advance.
Thancred...
If nothing else, you might have warned me that I would emerge from the Lifestream in the altogether.
Eventually, I managed to fashion knives from some obsidian I found, and set about hunting for meat and hides.
Given that I'm not all that skilled in leatherworking, it's probably for the best that I met the Vath before I was reunited with you.
So you were the “fleshling clothed in skins” of whom the storyteller spoke.
A description which fit me as ill as the skins themselves. Happily, I was able to trade with the Vath for garments better becoming a man of refinement.
From them I learned of Ravana, and of the great warrior who had once laid him low.
And thence did you conclude that were you to track the primal's movements, it would surely bring you into contact with the Scions once more.
It seemed a reasonable assumption. I could think of no one else with your enthusiasm for slaying beastman gods. Until now, that is.
Ah yes...the self-proclaimed “Warriors of Darkness.” 'Tis only fitting that they stand in opposition to the Warrior of Light, I suppose.
I glimpsed the leader's past─if only for a moment. They were confronting a man in black. An Ascian, I think.
If these warriors are capable of doing battle with Ascians and primals both, they must be possessed of powerful protection─protection not unlike the Echo...
Blessed with the power of the Echo, and driven to put down primals... Despite his declaration that they walk a different path, I struggle to see how their goals conflict with ours.
Nor is that the only oddity. I find it passing strange that such exceptional individuals should have wholly escaped our notice until now. Surely we would have heard rumors and attempted to recruit them to our cause?
I recall no such adventurers─and I would not soon forget their like. Nor would any of us, I think.
One of our primary duties was to scour the city-states for promising candidates─which is how Yda and Papalymo found Forename.
Ah, the memories. It seems like only yesterday that you slew your first primal. Speaking of which, I had the distinct impression that it was not the first time that band of merry men and women had killed a god.
I labor to believe that a band of preternaturally gifted adventurers has been traveling the land, slaying primals without our knowledge. 'Twould imply gross negligence on our part.
Speculation will avail us naught. There is far too much we do not know.
For the present, we must needs concentrate on what we do know, namely that Lord Ravana is no more. Vidofnir must be informed. The news may render her more receptive to Ser Aymeric's invitation.
Since you seem to have affairs here well in hand, I shall take my leave. Simply being in the vicinity of this colony is giving me a stinking headache.
If you have need of me, I shall be with Master Matoya. I would beg her assistance with the search for Minfilia.
Wait─Minfilia is missing? I thought she escaped with Forename!
I shall explain on the road. Much has happened in your absence...
I had not thought to see thee again so soon, mortal. If thou seekest the knight, know that she hath long since departed for Ishgard.
My thanks, Vidofnir, but it was not for her that we came. We bring good tidings for you and yours. Lord Ravana, who had been summoned by the Gnath, has again been laid low.
Truly? Once more you mortals have succeeded where mine own kind did fail. You have our deepest thanks.
Would that we could take credit. The god fell by another's hand.
Another? Revelation upon revelation. Regardless, it is cause for celebration. The Gnath will have no choice but to withdraw.
But to another matter. I have tidings for thee as well.
Regarding the Ishgardians' invitation?
As promised, I brought the matter to my sire. Hearken to his answer now.
“For a thousand years have I mourned my beloved, who gave her life to forge a peace thy king betrayed. Such was my lot, until a child of Ishgard came unto me.
“For want of warmth, she wrapped herself in a dream. Yet the world will remember her deeds. For truth, she fought. For justice, she sinned. For redemption, she sacrificed, and became as light.
“To follow one's heart, to have faith in one's convictions─be it for weal, or be it for woe. Such is the folly and the glory of man...and of dragon.”
He hath entrusted the choice to us, and we have made it. We will keep faith with you who walk in the Light.
Then you accept Ser Aymeric's invitation?
Let it be known that I, Vidofnir, shall journey unto Ishgard on behalf of my people.
We are honored to receive your answer, and will convey your words to our allies without delay.
It is happening, Ysayle. Would that you were here to see it...
Even as the Scions celebrated the return of a long-lost friend, honorable men plotted to deprive them of another.
Honorable men, to whom Ser Aymeric was no hero but a scheming patricide.
Honorable men, who would fain wash the paving stones of Foundation with the tyrant's blood.
Honorable men, whose knife in the dark was the spark which set the city aflame. And who sang as it burned.
Right. Let us not keep Ser Aymeric waiting.
...Are you quite well, Thancred?
Yes─yes, quite well. Forgive me. You have given me rather a lot to digest. This whole affair with the Ishgardians and the Dravanians...and our friends nowhere to be found.
'Twould seem there is no end to our troubles.
We can but face them head-on, one at a time. For now, we must apply ourselves to our allotted tasks and leave the others to theirs.
Remember, Thancred─we found you, as they found me. In time, we will find Yda and Papalymo and Minfilia as well.
These troubles will soon be but a memory─one which we will look back on together.
Pray do not misunderstand─I did not mean to imply that it would be otherwise. I merely wish that I had rejoined our grand adventure at one of its more triumphal moments. Despite your recent accomplishments, the mood here is less than celebratory.
But I have no doubt that we will enjoy many more glorious victories soon enough─and you may rest assured that I will play my part in them to the very hilt.
I know you will. So then─to the Congregation!
You have returned! In this at least the fates are kind.
Greetings, First Commander! It pleases me to inform you that Vidofnir has accepted Ser Aymeric's invitation.
She has!? These are glad tidings indeed...
Would that the lord commander were here to hear them.
Ah. Is he otherwise engaged?
Aye─sleepin' off a knife to the gut.
What? What happened!? Will he live?
The chirurgeons tell me he will make a full recovery. But had Lord Edmont and Lord Artoirel not been on hand when the assassin struck, he would not have been so fortunate. For a mercy, they subdued the fiend before he could land the telling blow.
The attack was just the beginnin', though. Not long after, buildings all 'round the city─includin' several of ours─burst into flame.
Bastards caught us completely by surprise. We've been dowsin' the fires, but for every one we put out, it seems like two more start up. Casualties are mountin'─especially in the Brume.
'Tis plain these fires were started by the assassin's conspirators. Until they have been rounded up, there will be no end to this. Will you help us find them?
Then let us be about it.
The flames are spreading. We must needs begin our investigation immediately.
Witnesses must be found; suspects must be identified.
Have you been able to determine the precise locations where the fires were set? Mayhap there is a pattern.
If there is, we have yet to discern it. Fires have been reported throughout the city, in both the Pillars and Foundation.
Indeed, given the size of the area affected, I think it best to divide our forces. Master Alphinaud and Mistress Y'shtola─I would have you take charge of the investigation in Foundation.
As you wish. Mayhap Tataru can be of assistance as well.
Meanin' Forename and me get the Pillars. Oh, they'll like me up there. Only question is, will the grizzled old rogue strikin' a pose over there be joinin' us?
Thancred, of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn. And may I say what a pleasure it is to meet you too, my lady.
I'll bet. The name's Hilda. A Scion, eh? And there I was thinkin' I'd found a fellow ruffian amongst all these illustrious personages.
I will remain here to coordinate the fire-quenching effort. If you learn aught of value, pray inform me immediately. That is all.
While we could begin by sifting through charred rubble and questioning random passersby, in my experience, every town has at least one individual who can be counted on to know things he or she should not.
Oh, aye...the infamous Lord Emmanellain de Fortemps, lover of women and wine─though neither care for him that much. They say he could gossip for Ishgard.
Just the sort of fellow I had in mind. Capital suggestion, Forename.
He'll be at the Crozier most like, makin' an effort to be seen. So let's go and see him.
...Grizzled I will accept, but old? <sigh>
Well, well, if it isn't Forename, dearest of all my friends! You're looking rather glum. Something the matter, old girl?
Ah, yes, the arsons. Dreadful business, that─and awfully curious, wouldn't you say? There doesn't seem to be any rhyme or reason to it at all. Naturally, we've doubled the guard outside the manor, along with most of the other houses. Can't have the old pile going up in flames, after all!
Oh, in case you were wondering why the Hoplon is awash with refugees, the lower levels of the Vault have been opened to those unfortunate souls who have lost their homes. Ser Aymeric's orders, from what I hear. Remarkable man─not even a knife in the ribs can keep him from his duties!
Actually, old girl...if you were thinking of questioning the refugees, I should be more than happy to accompany you to the Hoplon. While you conduct your inquiries, I could offer words of comfort to the distressed and despondent young maidens...?
Wait a moment...I know what that is. You're giving me one of your looks, aren't you? You do me an injustice, old girl! I will have you know, my heart yearns for but one rose─prickly though she may be!
...I sense you remain unconvinced. Very well, if it will help to prove the purity of my intentions, I shall gracefully rescind my offer. Now run along and catch those arsonists!
That was...not entirely what I had hoped for. Whose idea was it to come here again?
Never mind. For our next step, I suggest we divide our efforts. While you question the refugees in the Hoplon, Forename, I shall investigate the locations where the fires were set. Would you be so good as to join me, Hilda?
You know what, I reckon I would. Can't have you roamin' about in an unfamiliar city by your lonesome, can we? You'd only get robbed blind and left shiverin' in your smallclothes.
