Minfilia, am I right?
None other. I bid you welcome to Revenant's Toll, and thank you for traveling so far on such short notice.
Hah! As if I could ever say no to Urianger!
Moenbryda is an accomplished Sharlayan scholar and an authority on aetheryte technologies.
She has played an invaluable role in our search for a means to capture Ascian souls.
Charmed, I'm sure.
Let us return to the Rising Stones at once, then. We have much to discuss.
Is that Tupsimati on the wall back there? I'm amazed you managed to find all the pieces after...well...you know.
Moen! Gods, it's been ages!
Oh, longer, sister!
A joyous reunion indeed.
Well, of course it is! Moen and I are like twin sisters!
...Save in appearance and aptitude.
Everyone, if I could have your attention!
We have with us an esteemed guest who is come from Sharlayan to assist us.
I bid Moenbryda join us here that she might share with us her extensive knowledge of aetherytes.
Also, as many of you are already aware, she has been overseeing our research into white auracite─a sample of which she has been good enough to bring with her.
Well, I had to come, didn't I? You'd have to be bloody daft to turn your nose up at a chance like this. Where better to conduct my final tests than a land so steeped in aether you can taste it!?
'Tis plain the passage of the years hath done little to dampen thy youthful spirits...
...And nothing at all to reform thy youthful manner.
Urianger! Where in the hells've you been hiding?
Un...unhand me.
I come all this way, and that's what you have to say to me!?
I much preferred when you were pleading with me to drop everything and hurry to your side. What was it you said? “None save thee can satisfy this need─”
Go on...
Th-Thine artless attempts to misrepresent mine all-too-innocent motives do thee little credit!
Mine intent, as well thou knowest, was but to impress upon thee the gravity of the circumstance. Lest thou doubt, a deiform entity shall shortly be summoned, save if thou, and no other, grantest my compeers thine aid.
You still haven't found it, then? Your missing aetheryte?
We have not, no.
We know that Iceheart teleported to an aetheryte not far from the first, yet even after careful analysis, we could not locate the second beacon.
We now suspect that the heretics destroyed the second aetheryte to impede our pursuit.
Our allies continue to scour Snowcloak for Iceheart's sanctuary, but we have no guarantee that they will find it. Yet it must be found, for even now Iceheart prepares to call upon Saint Shiva.
I'm sorry but...if the aetheryte's been destroyed, then that's that.
Although... You're absolutely sure she used the first aetheryte, are you? She didn't just use teleportation magicks?
One of our own bore witness to her escape. I can say with absolute certainty that Iceheart used the aetheryte.
In that case, there might be a way─so long as the aetherial current is still flowing.
Truly? How?
We use the current to recreate the beacon.
As you know, aetherytes are a bit like lighthouses. We use them to reconstitute our physical forms when crossing the aetherial sea. Without them, we'd lose all sense of direction and our essence would dissipate.
However, we don't rely solely on these beacons. There are currents of aether which flow between them─currents which help guide us to our destination.
Now, these currents will gradually dwindle away to nothing if an aetheryte is destroyed. But if even a sluggish flow remains, we could theoretically use it to direct a surge of concentrated aether towards the void left by the beacon and thereby fill it up again.
Like opening the floodgates to fill a dry riverbed. Though, correct me if I'm wrong, but would we not need a veritable reservoir of aether?
In concert, we might manage to channel a sufficient volume, yet that is not my chief concern.
To direct the flow of so great a volume of aether with the requisite precision would be a nigh-impossible task in itself.
I barely succeeded in facilitating travel to an unattuned beacon. That which you describe sounds considerably more difficult.
And dangerous! Every person who has attempted to teleport in this fashion has died in the process. They, however, did not have white auracite at their disposal!
I can use it to channel all the aether you can give me into the aetheryte. However, white auracite cannot retain aether for an extended period of time, so we would need to infuse it immediately beforehand.
Just so you know, I'd confidently give this plan better than even odds of success. And if the worst comes to the worst, your people won't suffer.
Though it risk the lives of our best and brightest, we have not the time to seek other options.
If the aetherial current still flows, we shall carry out Moenbryda's plan.
That's the spirit! Let's roll the dice!
I have already informed Alphinaud of our plan to recreate the beacon in the manner Moenbryda described. He agreed that despite the inherent danger, it represents our only hope of success.
He also said that he wished to meet with you at Snowcloak before proceeding. I expect you will find him waiting for you there when you arrive.
I want you to know that I appreciate everything you have done on our behalf, Forename, and that I have faith you will return to us─as you always have.
Good to see you, Forename. I was starting to wonder if you were having second thoughts.
Captain Ilberd sends his regards, by the way. He attends to the interrogation of Eline Roaille in Ul'dah even as we speak.
But I shall not distract you from the matter at hand. We can discuss the Ivy upon your return.
I trust that... By which I mean to say... Ahem. The others are waiting for us at the aetheryte. After you, Scion.
There, it's ready!
Hah! It worked...I think.
Try attuning to the aetheryte now. Feel for the current and try to locate the beacon.
We have done all we can, Forename. For now, let us withdraw.
When your final preparations are complete, you must seek out the beacon we have created. If, by the grace of the Twelve, you arrive safely, you must stop Iceheart before she summons Shiva.
We cannot ignore the possibility that our actions have alerted Iceheart to our plans.
Should that be the case, she may attempt to hasten the completion of the summoning ritual. And if she succeeds, you will have little choice but to face Shiva in battle.
Knowing little of this “saint,” I cannot say if your own strength will suffice, and so I would encourage you to call upon your allies.
Some may have reservations about wagering their lives on the success of Moenbryda's experiment, but others will surely agree that desperate times call for desperate measures.
Ah! Before you assemble your party, pray speak with that knight. I believe he has a message for you from Ser Aymeric.
Madam. Ser Aymeric regrets that he could not be here in person, and asks that I read to you this letter. Ahem.
“Ishgard faces an unprecedented threat─yet in our hour of need, it is not her knights who stand poised to defend her. Forename Surname, the Warrior of Light, savior of Eorzea─your deeds this day shall not be forgotten.
“Where others would flee, you choose to remain. Where others would falter, you rise to the challenge. Where others would use their gifts for selfish ends, you wield yours in service to a greater cause.
“May Halone bless you with good fortune and see you safely home.”
You should never have come here, Warrior of Light. I labor only to forge a lasting peace.
A peace you would deny us out of ignorance and blind faith.
No matter. If it is our fate to be at odds, then it is mine to strike you down.
We whom gods and men have forsaken shall be the instruments of our own deliverance!
Partake of my flesh—fill this vessel with your light! Walk amongst your brothers and sisters once more!
O Saint Shiva, still the hatred within our hearts and bess us with eternal grace!
