Oooh, such a gentle and pleasing glow, kupo...
I am Moglin, the chieftain of this moogle clan.
Chieftain Moglin─it is an honor to meet you.
Greetings! I am Kuplo Kopp, ambassador of the Twelveswood moogles!
...A moogle from the world below? Your hide is of a different hue, but that pom is unmistakable! I might need a moment here, kupo...
My companions were no less surprised to learn of your existence here amongst the clouds. I hope they did not startle you overmuch in their eagerness to make your acquaintance. Full well can I imagine your wariness. I am told that men have not walked here in nigh on a thousand winters.
Mayhap you will forgive them their forwardness when I unfold to you the grave matter which first brought them into your midst. My companions crave an audience with the great wyrm Hraesvelgr that they might negotiate an end to the war 'twixt man and dragon.
An end to war, you say? Hmm... I trust you, Kan-E-Senna─the light of peace shines brightly within your soul.
...But I'm afraid the same cannot be said of your friends. To be plain, we did not hide ourselves because they were the first of your kind to be seen here in a thousand years─well, not only because of that. We hid because we smelled dragon blood.
These skies are home to many, many dragons.
While some crave peace, such as Hraesvelgr, many others crave the opposite...such as Nidhogg. Suffice it to say, we are worried that the presence of your blood-spattered warrior friends will attract the attention of the nastier kind, and invite destruction into our happy home.
Now just a moment, Chieftain! Forename here may have doled out the odd thrashing or two, but it's always been for a really good reason!
She is a champion of the Twelveswood moogles, and I'll not hear her good name slandered!
Now, now, Ambassador─let's not ruffle each other's fur. I shall of course take your testimony into consideration...
If I may, Chieftain: there is little room for trust 'twixt strangers. Might we not take this opportunity to learn more of each other?
An excellent suggestion, kupo. In the interests of fostering friendship─and keeping an eye on you─I extend to you the hospitality of Moghome.
Prove yourselves worthy of our assistance, and it will be yours. I shall be watching, kupo!
Tell me─in the world down below, do all of your kind look so different from one another? It must be terribly disconcerting...
What was it Kuplo Kopp called you again?
"Forename“? Hmph! Your names are as odd as your appearance. Have you ever considered a nice moogle name? ”Moglin“ is taken, by the way, kupo!
As are “Moghan,” “Mogmug,” and “Mogwin”─these being the names of the three wise moogles who will administer the momentous challenges that I have devised to measure your worth. I call them...the Trials of Trustworthiness.
Undertake these trials, and we shall soon see whether or not you are worthy of our aid!
