Kupopo!? P-Please don't eat me! I'm not nearly as sweet and succulent as I look!
Have no fear, little one. I promise we won't hurt you. Might you be Mogta, by any chance?
You...you know my name? Who are you?
...You seek the Ballad of Oblivion? Why, I do believe we're looking for the same thing, kupo!
Recently, I learned about the existence of a potent song. Legend says it resounds through the heavens and destroys all. Curious to know more, I went to ask the chieftain about it, but he told me off...
It's beyond a single moogle to seek, he said. I need friends with me whom I trust, otherwise it'd be far too dangerous. Unfortunately, I have no friends, kupo...
Though we have only met, we share a common objective. Might we not seek the Ballad of Oblivion together─as friends?
You...you would search with me?
Oh, joy of joys! I have friends!
Let's return to Moghome at once and have the chieftain tell us all about the song, kupo!
Hmmm... That your hearts beat as one in this endeavor is plain to see. You are fit to look for the Ballad of Oblivion...
...Is what I would say, except you are still missing a little something─a small but vital piece. I can't quite put a paw on it, but your fellowship is incomplete without it, kupo!
Guydelot─he is our missing piece. I believed that he would come back, but it seems I was wrong...
Is this true!? You caught sight of Guydelot here in the Churning Mists!?
This Guydelot fellow─does he love music, kupo?
Aye, that he does. Like you, he is a bard, and he loves music with all his heart.
Then it's settled! Once Guydelot joins us, we'll embark upon our journey! Our band will be all the merrier for his company!
If he's nearby, we're bound to find him. So please cheer up, kupo!
Until such time as your fellowship is whole, you may remain here as our guest, kupo.
In spite of our best efforts, I'm afraid we weren't able to find Guydelot.
If he had any intention to return, he would have done so by now. It seems plain we cannot depend upon him anymore.
But with or without him, we must continue our mission.
I was so hoping to meet Guydelot, but I suppose the show must go on. Now, the legend says that the Ballad of Oblivion can be found in the skies to the east. Is there another place like the Churning Mists in that direction, kupo?
Truly? Then that is where we must go!
We will need to make a brief visit to Gridania, to secure the use of an airship to bear us there. Pray come to the landing when you arrive in the city.
This is just between you and me, but I've actually spoken with Guydelot, kupo.
Unfortunately, he refused to come back, saying that he couldn't bear to face Sanson. I couldn't convince him to join us, but maybe you can, Forename. Here, take this with you.
It's Sanson's journal, the one he's always writing in. I, uh...borrowed it. I thought that it might help if you were to show it to Guydelot. You'll find him at the summit of Sohm Al, kupo.
Bah, that Mogta blabbed, didn't he!?
...Hm? Sanson's journal, is it? It's nigh filled cover to cover with writings on song. Huh... To see this, you'd think him a bard.
<sigh> I've done a lot of thinking since we last spoke.
Though he's no bard, Sanson's bent on finding the song. Hells, he's keener on it than any one of us, and I couldn't understand why. But now I do.
Sanson truly believes in song─it's as simple as that. But in the heat of the moment, I accused him of using song as a tool.
That was ill done, and I'm ashamed of myself. I can't bear to be in Sanson's company.
...You're off to the Sea of Clouds? Then I wish you luck. I can't go with you─I don't have the right.
I need to be alone right now and take a long, hard look at myself. You'd do best not to expect anything of me.
I'm pleased to say I was able to secure the Order's cooperation. We have permission to take an airship to the Sea of Clouds!
Oh, joy of joys! I'm so excited, I can hear music from the general direction of the airship!
Let's not tarry─the Ballad of Oblivion awaits, kupo!
Mogta senses that an eldritch power rests here, and it fills him with dread. It can only be the Ballad of Oblivion.
Though this place is abandoned, such structures as remain are reminiscent of Moghome. If moogles once lived here, then we are surely on the right track. Let us scour the entire isle!
This stone... It calls to me...
The Ballad of Oblivion is here! I've never felt so certain of anything in my life!
Hmmm... Where have I seen such markings before, kupo...?
<gasp> I remember now! This is a sealing stone, used to seal away baleful beings! Y-You mustn't touch─
