Hmmm. I don't know much about his stone, but I do know Mogwin's been creeping out the back way to Sohm Al's summit from time to time, kupo. Maybe he left it up there...
Well, what did you find out, kupo?
Ah. Ah, yes. Now that you mention it, I do seem to recall leaving my pebble out in the sun to dry...
Ahem! The second part of your trial commences! Go, adventurer, and retrieve my masterpiece before some art-starved admirer swipes the stone for himself!
Do you have it, kupo? Is my masterpiece safe?
Yes, this is my work! Is it not exquisite? I call it Contemplations of Zenith.
Thank you, madam! At last, I can exchange my art for those delectable kupo nuts! Chieftain Moglin will hear of this valorous deed!
Forename─if that is what you insist on calling yourself─you have completed the Trials of Trustworthiness administered by the taskmasters Moghan, Mogmug, and Mogwin!
During these grueling tests of character, I closely observed your conduct─as well as that of your companions...
And...I am decided, kupo! Gather your friends before me now, so that I need not repeat myself...needlessly.
Are these “trials” over, then? My tasks have been little more than household chores...
If our hosts elect not to grant their aid after working us like pack chocobos, I shall demand compensation in kupo nuts out of principle. But I hope it will not come to that. Let us hear the chieftain's verdict, shall we?
How go your trials, Warrior of Light? I myself have been sent on a number of expeditions to “chastise” the local dragon population. Did not their chieftain wish to avoid inflaming the Dravanians...?
Such contradictions aside, our hosts seemed entranced by the height of my leap. They compared me to “Mog,” a lance-wielding moogle warrior of eld who also favored such attacks.
'Twas meant as a compliment, I expect, but I doubt these furry lumps could outleap a karakul lamb, much less a dragoon. Conclude your business here swiftly, Forename─I like not this place.
What sorcery is this...? That my heart should stir at mere...fluffiness...
Forename! I-I was... No matter. What is it? ...Chieftain Moglin has made his decision? Well, let us not keep him waiting, then!
Standing here in Moghome, my thoughts turn inevitably to the legend of Good King Moggle Mog XII, and his seat in the heavens...
Like most, I thought it no more than a myth─a story for younglings that grew with the telling. But with every passing moment, I become more certain that we have discovered the origin of the tale. Full eager am I to hear what the chieftain has to say.
We've become such friends, kupo! My moogle cousins love to sing and dance as much as I do!
...Chieftain Moglin has finally come to a decision, has he? Well, I suppose I'd better flutter over and see him, then!
Never have I seen such determined workers, kupo! It would have taken us moons to complete all those dreary chores and niggling errands!
And have our labors proven the purity of our intentions, Chieftain?
Without a doubt! In fact, there was never really all that much doubt to begin with... You were, after all, already friends with a fellow moogle.
But, you see, before any meeting with Hraesvelgr could take place, certain preparations needed to be made... And what better way to help you pass the time than by having you perform all the tiresome tasks that no one ever wants to do, kupo!
Grrr...
Ohhh dear... Th-The horn! Bring out the horn! Quickly now!
We blow on this wondrous instrument whenever we wish to speak with the great wyrm, kupo.
We, uh...we haven't perhaps been treating it with the care it deserves of late (and I think Moghan may have sat on it), so we needed some time for cleaning and polishing (and straightening).
No lasting harm done, though! Now, you need simply head to Zenith─the wyrm's dwelling to the west─and give the horn a good toot.
We are in your debt, Chieftain. Thanks to your noble gift, we shall finally have a chance to plead our case to Hraesvelgr.
...Very possibly, yes....But I wouldn't get my hopes up too high, kupo. The old wyrm isn't terribly fond of...um...
Your concern is appreciated, but I am quite certain that Hraesvelgr will welcome our overtures.
...Should we ever arrive at his lair. Come─we have squandered enough time already.
Chieftain Moglin, we thank you for your gracious hospitality. Though we must soon take our leave, I pray that we may continue to nurture the shoots of this new-sprung friendship 'twixt earth and sky.
Of course, of course, kupo! Visit us whenever you wish! Consider Moghome your home amongst the clouds!
Thanks for the help, kupo! I doubt I would ever have found time for all those rotten chores!
...H-Hey, it wasn't my idea! If the chieftain had spent a little less time sitting about and a little more time chieftaining, things would never have gotten so messy in the first place! (And he was the one who sat on the horn, by the way.)
But now all the errands are done and the horn is fixed, so...all's well that ends well, eh, kupo?
Well, uh...I expect you're eager to be on your way! ...Did I mention your friend was looking for you, kupo? If not: Alphinaud is looking for you!
I'll be waiting just outside, stretching my wings. Let me know when you're ready to depart!
To the best of my knowledge, we have all that we need for our trip to Zenith. And I believe the Elder Seedseer and her retinue will soon be making the journey back to Gridania.
It would be remiss of us, I think, not to convey our gratitude to them prior to going our separate ways. Shall we?
Alphinaud, Forename─I do humbly thank you for what has been a most enlightening experience. Were it not for your pioneering spirit, the existence of these moogles might never have been revealed to us.
'Tis we who should be thankful, Elder Seedseer. Were it not for your timely diplomacy, they would never have chosen to reveal themselves at all.
And 'twas your presence, Kuplo Kopp, that ultimately won us their trust. It must have taken great courage to leave the sanctuary of the Twelveswood, and we are exceedingly glad that you did.
It was my pleasure, kupo! I've made so many new friends, and have so many fantastic tales to tell my kinsmoogles back home!
And it is to our home that we must now return. May you ever walk in the light of the Crystal, my friends.
Safe journey, Elder Seedseer. We too must be on our way. Hraesvelgr awaits.
Warrior of Light... Pray attend closely to your companion, Ser Estinien─beneath that stoical facade, a storm of anguish seethes unseen.
Have you said your good-byes and dabbed away your tears, kupo? Then we are indeed ready to go!
As Chieftain Moglin already explained, the shiny instrument we gave you is the best means of grabbing Hraesvelgr's attention. I'll come along, and show you the way to Zenith─that's the big palace where you need to blow the horn.
First things first, though, we need to make for Asah. Oh...and watch out for rampaging dragons. Hm, maybe that should have been the first thing, kupo.
Things were a bit bitey for a while there, but I think we've arrived in one piece, kupo.
I wonder what has the dragons so awfully snappy... I mean, the bad ones are always bad, but they seem worse than usual.
Hmmm...we may have a small problem, kupo. When the winds are high like this, Hraesvelgr invariably abandons his lofty perch and heads to the lands below to hunt.
If you tried blowing the horn now, I doubt he'd hear it. I suggest we stop at the clearing up ahead and rest until the wind dies down.
This should do nicely, kupo. The winds will likely have died down by tomorrow, but until then, we might as well make ourselves comfortable!
If we must interrupt our journey so close to its end, I suppose this place is as good as any.
And mayhap a brief respite from the hardships of the road will help to clear our minds in readiness for the coming parley. Very well, then. I believe a campfire is in order.
Leave the gathering of fuel to me─I acquired a keen nose for firewood during my time in the frozen wastes of Coerthas.
Hmph. “Clear our minds”? 'Tis Master Alphinaud whose mind needs clearing. The thought of meeting a great wyrm in the flesh has befuddled the boy.
Did you see him stroll away as if these ruins were not crawling with deadly beasts? Follow him, Forename, and see that the wildlife does not make a meal of our young friend.
We will have the camp ready by the time you return.
Once Alphinaud returns with the wood, we can see about supper. The ice queen has filled a pot with what looked like stew ingredients, ready for the fire.
Ahhh...few things compare to the simple pleasure of sitting beside a crackling campfire of one's own making.
Hah! So speaks the “great explorer.” Until recently, you wouldn't have recognized firewood if it came with kindling and a flint.
'Tis well you instructed me so patiently, then! But yes, left to my own devices, I would have been compelled to signal to Ysayle with a pile of damp leaves.
I was born the pampered son of a Sharlayan dignitary, and, alongside my twin, became the youngest student ever to be accepted into the Studium.
How proud I was to match wits with scholars and philosophers... How ignorant of mine own shortcomings... That hubris invited manipulation and betrayal...and led to the downfall of the Scions.
We all of us are guilty of similar ignorance. How many men lay down their lives, never knowing what it is that they fight for? Never questioning that which they have been taught to believe?
'Twas only upon meeting Hraesvelgr that I learned the truth hidden within our history. Were it not for that chance encounter, I would never have vowed to tear down the Holy See, and expunge the falsehoods with which it fans the flames of conflict. I would have lived and died in ignorance. That the truth has driven me to do terrible things, I cannot deny, but I would rather sin in the pursuit of peace than imagine myself virtuous for perpetuating a needless war.
If this journey has taught me anything, it is the importance─and difficulty─of holding to one's convictions in the face of failure...of striving always to replace one's ignorance with knowledge.
You are well on your way, Master Alphinaud. At your age, I was but a fool swinging a spear, with scarcely a thought in my head.
Even now, I struggle to acknowledge the misconceptions under which I have labored.
Sitting here, amongst these grand ruins, how can I deny that man and dragon once lived in peace?
But for all that such an age existed, we are now in a time of war. Nidhogg killed my family, and no quirk of history will exonerate him.
I may be ignorant of how the Dragonsong War began, but if we do not put an end to this conflict now, I can say for a certainty that it will only breed more vengeful souls such as mine.
In my hands resides the power to vanquish a great wyrm. If Ishgard's survival rests on me wielding that power, I will slay Nidhogg myself...orders or no.
Estinien... You gave your word...
My word is contingent upon the success of our parley. Show me the strength of your convictions, Lady Iceheart. Convince Hraesvelgr of the righteousness of your cause.
Doubt not but that I shall, dragoon.
Well...winds willing, we shall have our answers on the morrow. Let us sleep now, and face our fate with the rising of the sun...
The campfire was so cozy... I must have fallen asleep, kupo.
But do you feel how the winds have shifted!? They will have borne Hraesvelgr back to the skies above Zenith─I'm sure of it!
This is your chance to climb to the highest floor of the palace, and summon him with a toot on that shiny horn! So, uh...I-I'll be heading back now, if it's all the same to you. Good luck, kupo! It was nice knowing you!
