Just a little further, kupo!
Our own Ballad of Oblivion...for your consideration, fiend!
Whew... The sealing stone is back to the way it was, kupo.
...You were with us aboard the airship!? But there's scarcely any room to─ Ack, never mind that now! Wherever it was you were hiding, you made us all worried sick! Do you know that!?
If I didn't know before, I certainly do now. I also know how hard you've been working, thanks to this.
M-My journal! Where did you─!? Give that back this instant! I need it to write my report!
Balls you do! We composed our own Ballad of Oblivion─that's all you need to write!
Hmmm... Now that I think about it, my superiors will demand more tangible results...
Ah, but of course! Such abilities that Forename mastered during the journey─they shall serve admirably!
Bah, make up your bloody mind!
When I return to Moghome, I'm going to tell everyone that we created our very own Ballad of Oblivion, kupo!
Speaking of returning, I'd best get back to being a Quiverman. And who knows? I might even try to behave myself from now on. But whatever I might get up to, know that I won't rest until I surpass both Jehantel and Forename!
I look forward to the day that you do. Remember, my plan can't succeed without you.
Please send me word when the unit is formed! I'll come and pay everyone a visit, kupo!
You shall be the first to know, my friend.
And on that note, let's go home!
Upon returning to Gridania, I must report to both the Order of the Twin Adder and the Gods' Quiver. While I attend to business, might I trouble you to pay Jehantel a visit? He will doubtless desire to hear an account of our journey.
Thank you, Forename─for everything. I know not when it will be, but I look forward to the day we meet again.
...A rousing tale of friendship in the face of adversity. I thank you for watching over Sanson and Guydelot. When Sanson's plan begins taking shape, he may count on me to aid him in whatever way I am able.
As for you, my friend, 'tis plain that your experiences have raised you higher as a bard, as I had expected they would. I pray that you shall ever be a paragon of our art, enriching the hearts of men with song.
Ah, my dear Forename. How good of you to pay me a visit, and a timely one at that. Our friend Sanson, with whom you journeyed─I met with him but recently, and it pleases me to say that his labors have finally borne fruit.
Aye, his proposal for a unit incorporating bards has received formal approval. Even as we speak, he is rounding up members for the unit's inaugural mission.
Now, during our conversation, Sanson mentioned that he had a favor to ask of you. In case you haven't yet heard from him, mayhap you could seek him out first. You are like to find him at Quiver's Hold.
Forename, it's so good to see you! Our hard work has paid off, my friend: I've received permission to establish my bard unit! Moreover, we've already been assigned our first mission!
I couldn't be more pleased...save for one practical concern: our new recruits yet lack the experience to embark on an honest-to-gods mission.
In seeking to fill our ranks, I immediately thought of you, Forename. You are an exemplary among bards, and I should be greatly heartened for your participation in our maiden outing.
I've also taken the liberty of requesting Guydelot's transfer to the unit. With your combined experience and skill, we are bound to leave a splendid first impression!
Now then, I will go to receive my orders from Commander Heuloix. May I assume that you will join me?
May I say that I, too, have a vested interest in young Sanson's success. I should be personally grateful were you to lend him your aid, Forename.
If it isn't Sergeant Surname. By all accounts, you were instrumental in the success of Captain Smyth's previous expedition. We are glad for your cooperation.
Now then, allow me to brief you on the mission. Our order has received an anonymous letter, one that makes certain...claims. We would have your unit verify the truth of it.
