Why, hello there! Who might you be?
If you're lookin' to join the Adventurers' Guild, you've come to the right place.
Name's Momodi, and I own this fine establishment, if it please you.
I also manage the Adventurers' Guild here in Ul'dah. So you might say that lookin' after green adventurers like yourself is my vocation.
And lucky for you that it is. Without someone like me to steer you right, you'd soon find yourself out in the middle of nowhere, caught up in business you don't understand.
Like our conflict with the Amalj'aa, for example. They've been plaguin' the sultanate for nigh on, oooh...forever now.
Then there's the Garlean Empire. None can say for sure what they're plottin' these days, only that they are.
Aye, the people drink and make merry...but underneath it all, there's worry. Worry and a lingerin' feelin' of loss.
And little wonder. It's scarce been five years since the lesser moon cracked open like a giant egg, releasin' an abomination intent on turnin' the realm into an eighth hell...
So much was lost in the blink of an eye. 'Twas like the end of the world had come at last.
But then things begin to get foggy. Everyone's got their own version of what happened next─some of 'em, two or three...
You'd think people would remember somethin' like that─but the fact is, they don't. Nobody does.
There is one thing the survivors agree on, though: the part played by a band of adventurers who laid down their lives for a realm that wasn't their own.
They fought valiantly, and like so many others, they never returned. Deeds worth rememberin', I'm sure you'll agree. It's just a shame our recollections of those brave heroes are as jumbled as those of the Calamity itself.
Whenever we try to call their faces to mind, it's like they're standin' between us and the midday sun, permanently silhouetted... I'll bet that sounds poetic to you, doesn't it? Well it's not. It's bloody infuriatin'.
But even if we can't remember them, we'll not let 'em be forgotten, and so we call 'em the Warriors of Light.
And they'll forever stand as a shinin' example of what adventurers can achieve. That's why I welcome new arrivals like yourself to our fair city.
All I ask is that you lend a helpin' hand, and try to leave Ul'dah in a better state than you found her. If you can promise that, I'd be happy to let you join the guild.
All right, then! A promise is a promise, now!
I'm countin' on your help to put the past behind us. We need people workin' and spendin' and bickerin' like the old days!
And a happy and prosperous Ul'dah means more business for the Quicksand, too!
Anyroad, let's make this official.
Go ahead and write your name in the register─neat as you can.
...Forename Surname. Well, ain't that a charmin' name. Just rolls off the tongue, it does.
All right, Miss Surname! On behalf of the Adventurers' Guild, I officially─
