That's quite enough! Have you all forgotten the reason for this assembly?
Scholarch Montichaigne. He's the head of the Studium, and an old friend of my grandfather's.
Honestly, every discussion devolves into some interminable debate. Terrible habit. Let's return to the topic at hand, hm?
By their own admission, these Scions have resolved to fight alongside the Eorzean nations against the doom which swift approaches.
But there exists no evidence of an attempt to incite our citizens to do the same.
Furthermore, while our decision may well've been the correct one, we cannot simply bull our way through these disagreements without inviting doubts or objections.
Put yourselves in their place! Who among you would leave a tome unopened if an elder forbid you read it with no reason given?
No, if we're to quell further discontent, then we must conclude this matter with a fair and even hand.
Order! We will have order!
Master Montichaigne raises some valid points. Keeping such concerns in mind, I propose we enforce the following measures.
Until further notice, the Students of Baldesion are to cease any and all activities within the domain of Sharlayan.
You will also refrain from any further investigation into the Forum's decisions and duties. Failure to comply with these restrictions will result in the immediate expulsion of your Scion associates.
Let us put this judgment to a vote. All in favor, raise your hand!
I count fifty-one for, and forty-eight against. The proposal is passed.
Students, Scions, you have heard the Forum's judgment. Pray abide by it or face the consequences.
Honored members, I thank you for your time. This inquiry is concluded!
I apologize for the trouble I've caused you. I was pondering the significance of what I had just read as I left the restricted section...
...And knocked over the security mammet on my way out. I promise to be more vigilant next time.
My father may be right─that I am still groping in the dark for answers. But I needed him to know that I would never stop searching. I owed that much to Arenvald...and myself.
Thank the gods for Scholarch Montichaigne. I absolutely loathe arguing in circles.
You may encounter some raised eyebrows, but do continue to claim the Students as your sponsor whensoever the need arises.
I believe in the guiding principles of the Scions...and I know my grandfather would have as well.
Well, at least we've been allowed to remain in the city.
And our endless investigations have not been in vain─we now know that this mysterious duty of theirs began with whatever the Forum discovered in the aetherial sea.
With our freedoms so sorely curtailed, however, we will struggle to learn aught more of substance here in Sharlayan...
We shall have to think very carefully about how we are to proceed from here.
The overall picture has grown clearer, yes, but that's in spite of the Forum being so maddeningly vague about this duty of theirs.
Why are they so reluctant to explain their actions in plain words?
Survival, come what may... Is Father's work so vital that it takes precedence over his own family?
