Er, e-excuse me, miss! Are you recently come to the city, perchance? I'm quite familiar with our civic roles, you see, and...well... Ahem!
Wh-What I mean to ask is, have you brought any books with you!? A rumpled scroll, even? A scrap of scribbled-on parchment...?
...My apologies. Literature is something of an obsession of mine. As well as a profession.
Librarian Moren, at your service. And this humble collection is known as the Cabinet of Curiosity.
As your powers of perception have likely informed you, my colleagues and I are responsible for curating all manner of tomes, documents, and other vehicles for the written word.
As horrific as the loss of life and land wrought by the Flood unquestionably was, the damage to recorded knowledge was no less catastrophic. We few do all we can to preserve what wisdom survived.
But tell me, what brings you to the Cabinet today? Looking for any title in particular? Mayhap a spot of academic research!?
Oho! So you've an interest in modern history? Splendid! A thorough review of recent events can often yield novel perspectives, I quite agree!
If you would prefer something visual to accompany the account, then I think I have an illustrated history book for children somewhere... Just a moment, and I'll fetch it for you.
And here we are. Would you like to pull up a chair? Make yourself more comfortable? ...Ahem, on with the lesson, then.
A hundred years ago─or near enough not to matter─villains known as the Warriors of Light slew the Shadowkeeper, the steward of Darkness.
In the wake of this tainted deed, Light began to pour into the world as if from unseen cracks. It pooled and swelled without cease, until the day an enormous, blinding wave rose up and swept across our star.
We called this calamity the “Flood of Light.”Everything it touched was leeched of life and vigor, leaving naught behind but a luminous wasteland.
Yet just when it seemed that all would be lost, a savior appeared before us...
The Oracle of Light. She stood 'twixt us and approaching doom, and by her power did she stay the Flood. Thus was Norvrandt, and Norvrandt alone, spared the fate of erasure.
Tragedy would, however, arrive in another form. From the blasted emptiness descended horrors of strange and terrible aspect to bedevil the few folk who survived.
These “sin eaters” were Light incarnate, and their fulgent presence stole the night from Norvrandt's sky.
Even now, they circle the remaining bastions of civilization, ever on the hunt for us, ever hungering for our flesh...
...And thus did the world become what it is.Should you ever wish to hear the tale again, I would be glad to retell it for you.
O-Or if you would rather I speak of other matters, that too would be my pleasure! I should be glad of the company!
O-Or if you would rather I speak of other matters, that too would be my pleasure! I should be glad of the company!
