Well, well, what have we here?
A wide-eyed and wondering young adventurer, come to put your name down at the guild, I assume?
Welcome. Miounne's my name, or Mother Miounne as most call me, and the Carline Canopy is my place.
As the head of the Adventurers' Guild in Gridania, I have the honor of providing guidance to the fledgling heroes who pass through our gates.
No matter your ambitions, the guild is here to help you attain them.
In return, we expect you to fulfill your duties as an adventurer by assisting the people of Gridania. A fine deal, wouldn't you agree?
To an outsider's eyes, all may seem well with our nation, but naught could be further from the truth. The people live in a state of constant apprehension.
The Ixal and various gangs of common bandits provide an unending supply of trouble─trouble compounded by the ever-present threat of the Garlean Empire to the north. And that is to say nothing of the Calamity...
Even now, the wounds have barely begun to heal. Ah, but I speak of it as if you were there. Forgive me. Five years past, Eorzea was well-nigh laid to waste when a dread wyrm emerged from within the lesser moon, Dalamud, and rained fire upon the realm. It is this which people call “the Calamity.”
Scarcely a square malm of the Twelveswood was spared the devastation. Yet despite the forest's extensive wounds, not a soul among us can recall precisely how it all happened.
I am well aware of how improbable that must sound to an outsider... It is improbable. But it's also true. For reasons we can ill explain, the facts surrounding the Calamity are shrouded in mystery. There are as many versions of events as there are people willing to recount them.
Yet amidst the hazy recollections and conflicting accounts, all agree on one thing: that Eorzea was saved from certain doom by a band of valiant adventurers.
Whatever else we've misremembered, none of us have forgotten the heroes who risked life and limb for the sake of the realm. And yet...whenever we try to say their names, the words die upon our lips.
And whenever we try to call their faces to mind, we see naught but silhouettes amidst a blinding glare.
Thus have these adventurers come to be known as “the Warriors of Light.”
...Ahem. Pray do not feel daunted by the deeds of legends. We do not ask that you become another Warrior of Light, only that you do what you can to assist the people of Gridania.
Great or small, every contribution counts. I trust you will play your part.
All that's left, then, is to conclude the business of registration. Here's a quill. Scrawl your name right there.
Oh, and I would appreciate it if you used your real name─there is a special place in the seventh hell for those who use “amusing” aliases.
...Forename Surname, hm? And you're quite sure that isn't an amusing alias?
Very well. From this moment forward, you are a registered adventurer of Gridania, nation blessed of the elementals and the bounty of the Twelveswood. The guild expects great things from you.
