I still remember Her Majesty so clearly... If only I didn't, I might feel better about the future of our realm.
Perhaps we should also consider moving to Tuliyollal. The journey won't be easy, but it'd be better than staying here in uncertainty.
In times like these, I take comfort in the beliefs of a Turali people called the Yok Huy.
To them, death isn't the end. So long as we're remembered, we never truly die.
It could be the same for Queen Sphene, you know? If you keep her alive in your hearts, she'll always be with you.
But...we still won't be able to see her, right? I don't want to think about that...
I wish I could just forget instead of having to feel like this...
I'm sorry, I didn't mean to impose... Please, mourn your queen however you see fit.
As expected, they struggle to come to terms with their loss. I hope they can find a way to move forward.
It's not only grief that weighs on them, but worry for the future. Bereft of their queen, how will they proceed...
True... But with that, at least, we're not powerless to help.
What is it, Gulool Ja?
I was wondering... Is it better to remember or forget someone when they're dead?
I remember my father. And every time I think of him, it hurts.
It's the same with Queen Sphene. Knowing that she's gone makes me feel sad.
But it's different with my mother. I never knew her, so I don't feel as bad.
I want to remember my father. But maybe I'd be better off forgetting him...
Gulool Ja...
Why don't we continue this somewhere else?
This seems a good place to continue our conversation.
I'm sorry. I shouldn't have brought that up...
I hope the altar can provide comfort to those who need it.
Seeing that child reminded me of myself. Of how hard it was for me to accept that Grandfather was gone.
But that sadness is what gave me the strength to come this far, and I would never choose to forget it. Never.
Simply leaving Alexandria won't solve all their problems, I fear. The problem runs deeper than that.
Hey, Gulool Ja? Do you really know nothing at all about your mother?
Shale searched the system for information on residents, but the only Mamool Ja she found listed were my father and me.
Even if she died and was erased from people's memories, she should've been there. But she wasn't...
Well, that you're here means she was here too, inside the dome. There can't be any other way about it.
Maybe... It's hard to explain. I'm not sad, but I feel like...like I'm missing something.
So even if it makes me feel sad, I want to know my mother.
I think so. Even if it makes me feel sad, I want to know her.
So I want to try looking again. And if I don't find anything this time, I'll give up.
I see... Well, if that's what you want...
...Then I'll help you!
I'd like to help as well, and I believe I speak for the others too.
But...I can't bother you with this. You already came for the funeral...
We came here not only for the funeral, but to see whether all was well in Alexandria. We're not about to leave just yet.
Besides, in seeking to learn about your mother, we're bound to learn about your father as well.
By retracing the steps of this man who kept his own counsel, we may gain knowledge that can serve the people of Alexandria.
...Alright. Thank you, everyone!
We might learn more about my father, too? I hadn't thought of that.
If this is what Gulool Ja wants, then I'll help him however I can. After all, we're family!
I can very much relate to his feelings. I pray Gulool Ja finds what he seeks.
I understand all too well Gulool Ja's desire. For the longest time I found my own father's actions inexplicable...
If no records remain of Gulool Ja's mother, then where do we begin our search?
Assuming neither memories nor records of Gulool Ja's mother remain, we must cast as wide a net as possible. I suggest we split into groups.
Forename─if you could make inquiries outside in the outskirts, the rest of us will do the same in Solution Nine.
