<sniff> So much has been taken from us... Why even try?
Ohokaliy
Ohokaliy!
What? The float is fixed!? Our fallen friends would be glad to know that Ihih'hana will soon be underway. They would have wanted us to honor them with celebration, not let their loss deter us from it.
I must go and enjoy the festival for those who no longer can!
The Hanu were pleased to hear their festival was going ahead, I imagine?
That is well. Once your friends return, the Lifting of Wings can begin at last.
So few have come...
Patience. Once Ihih'hana gets underway, no Hanu will be able to resist joining in.
Just so! Wuk Evu knows well the heart of the Hanu!
Have faith, Third Promise, and climb aboard the float! It is time for the Lifting of Wings!
Right! Off we go!
Ihih'hana is a prayer for bountiful harvest, but this is not its only meaning.
It is also an exchange of pledges between rider and bearers─a commitment to a long and fruitful friendship.
Listen well, friends! The personage we bear today is Wuk Lamat, the savior of our beloved festival!
Let your shoulders burn or your feathers fall out, but do not even think of dropping her!
Ready and...
I could get used to this.
Will empty bellies stop you from joining in the fun? Come and help us carry the float!
Well, well, well. To see the day the Dawn's Promise would ride our boat again.
We've not had the honor since you were here, Gulool Ja Ja.
Right, we've enough bearers now! Onwards to Kozanuakiy!
Watch well, for you are about to bear witness to the true glory of Ihih'hana!
The float draws upon our life force, concentrating and amplifying the energy...
Kixaihih then receives that energy and expels it in a great burst, where it showers down upon the land to replenish its vital currents!
It worked!
Like a literal charm!
The float really was helping the reeds...
That was...amazing. To think that such a thing was even possible!
Even deprived of their usual sustenance, the Hanu seemed invigorated the moment the festival began. Ihih'hana truly is magical!
I told you, didn't I? Spectacular.
I wasn't sure what to expect...but the festival was admittedly impressive.
I was too quick to dismiss the idea that the float had arcane properties. I think I wanted to believe that no one knew more about Ihih'hana than me.
As it turns out, there are many things I have yet to learn...
With their fields rejuvenated, the Hanuhanu, too, might finally replenish their flagging reserves of aether.
I'd like to take a turn riding the float. ...What? It looked like fun! Don't pretend the thought didn't cross your mind.
Should I have left the float behind like that? I was so excited to see the reeds...
Nothing to worry yourself over. My brethren have been swept up by festival fever─last I saw, they were taking turns at the carrying poles on the way back to the village.
Please, feel free to look over the fields and enjoy the sight of what you've accomplished.
Some of them still look a bit sickly...
I imagine even the harvest magic has its limits. If the Hanu continue their festival tradition year after year, though, the entire field should eventually recover.
Where does that leave us with the feat, then...?
You've got nothing to fear on that account.
Our situation could never have resolved itself. The revival of even a single reed would have served to demonstrate your commitment to the task.
That you recognized the nature of the float and found a near-perfect solution in Ihih'hana proves your dedication!
What's more, I don't think I've seen the festival produce such impressive results since I was a mere chirper.
We have been lax in maintaining the float, diluting its magic and reducing Ihih'hana to hollow theater.
But today's events remind us of the power in tradition.
Koana!
I was delayed by an unpleasant encounter, but it seems I arrived at a good time.
Oh...isn't that wonderful.
What!? You just pour in some mystery liquid, and problem solved!?
Stagnant aether was to blame for the reeds' poor condition. I assume that was an alchemical concoction which enhances aetherial conductivity.
It utilized the flowing water as an aetherial current, thereby promoting the transfer of life energies.
A method I could not have devised without the education I received at the Studium and the cooperation of my Archon allies.
Archon allies...?
You see, Lamaty'i? This is why we need to embrace foreign knowledge and technology.
Employed appropriately, they make light work of what would otherwise be arduous labor. There's no need to lug around heavy floats!
Well, you always were the clever one, Brother.
Your approach was no less effective, Wuk Lamat. It achieved the same result.
Indeed it did. And you enjoyed the festival, yes?
I did! It was so much fun!
Having visited your village before, I thought I knew everything about it.
As it turns out, I knew very little. About the reeds, about Ihih'hana...
With all I've learned this time, I feel as though I've really come to know the Hanu...
And I like you even more now than I did before!
The feeling is mutual. And it's not just you who had a lot to learn, either─I'll never look at our float the same way again!
The two of you have exceeded expectations. Come forth and claim your stones.
So this is what they look like...
Go on, set it in the tablet!
A perfect fit! That leaves six more.
Five more to go!
And on to the next.
Not even a moment of celebration... That's Koana for you.
Third Promise, you must join us for Ihih'hana next season.
As Dawnservant, of course!
Right, it's back to Tuliyollal for now.
Thank you for having us. I look forward to seeing you all again!
These are interesting times, indeed.
The concoction was brewed by Koana himself. It's a test vial, but it should contain the same reagents.
Good work. We'll use whatever we must to win. For win we must.
Two-headed troubles aside, Wuk Lamat completed the feat and earned a keystone. That's all that matters.
That makes two out of seven keystones... So far, so good.
While Koana seems a decent sort, he strikes me as a man who likes to keep others at a distance.
I'm curious as to who these Archons the Second Promise mentioned could possibly be...
Where has Bakool Ja Ja gone, I wonder? And what did his follower mean by their “other” prospect...?
My journey has just started and already I've met so many wonderful people.
Wuk Evu, for one. He's a bit eccentric, but everyone could stand to be as respectful of other cultures as he is.
And Linuhanu─it warmed my heart to see him honor his departed friend through Ihih'hana, and to help others do the same.
I can't help but feel excited thinking who else I might meet over the course of the contest. Come on, let's head back to Xbalyav Ty'e!
Ooh, my belly... Long has it been since live feasted so well.
I pray we don't cross paths with Bakool Ja Ja at the next feat...
But even if we do, we've made a good start on these challenges. Hopefully we can keep it up.
I noticed Zoraal Ja was not at the Hanu village...
Yet in a contest like this one, 'tis only a matter of time until the claimants are pitted against each other in direct competition.
The Hanu's festival must be as central to their traditions as the sundrop dance is to the Vanu.
I have not forgotten our obligations to Wuk Lamat, but it's moments like these─when we can immerse ourselves in the cultures of others─that fill me with anticipation for the new experiences this adventure will bring us.
When Wuk Lamat declared her intention to save the festival, I feared where it would lead us. I'm glad to see my concerns were unfounded.
...Traveling with so large and diverse a group is...unfamiliar to me. If she could see me now...
And just like that, we found an elector and won our first keystone. I knew I was right to trust your instincts!
Come on! Let's keep things moving, and march onwards to Urqopacha!
Chances are good we'll find an elector there as well. Before we do anything, however, we should see what your opportunistic Pelu friend has to say.
Look at us!
The contest has barely begun and we already have two keystones! Surely even my talented brothers aren't doing this well!
We can only hope.
Come on, Forename—let's see what's waiting for us in the next village!
Wuk Lamat would have struggled to complete these feats alone. Bringing you together was the correct choice, it seems.
With one keystone already in hand, we've made an auspicious start to the contest. Hopefully our next attempt is equally successful.
The rules of the contest seem clear enough now: the scenes from the saga point us in the direction of the electors, and the electors award us keystones for performing their feats. Simple!
Without knowing how far the other claimants have progressed, taking anything other than a brief rest is out of the question.
I've been waiting for what feels like days...and eaten enough of Br'uk Evu's tacos to feed an army!
What is it you'd like to know?
Our main concern was confirming the state of the road ahead.
As I recall, to reach Urqopacha, we depart from the Arch of the Dawn, then take the road west at the first fork. Should we be wary of anything along the way?
That is indeed the way to Urqopacha. After the damage wrought by the recent downpour, however, you'll be doing more stumbling than walking.
But do take heart! When it comes to rugged terrain, we have a most dependable solution available. Come with me!
We'll be back to talk to you in good time, friend Hanu. Meanwhile, you can eat and drink your fill at Xbalyav Ty'e─it's all been arranged!
So...I can order anything I like at Xbalyav Ty'e? Anything!? The Third Promise is too generous!
Talking to a Pelu before we departed was a wise decision. I for one would rather not brave a treacherous, slippery trail on foot.
The Pelupelu all being small is confusing enough, but those masks make it almost impossible to tell men from women, let alone guess at their age.
Oh my! Are these fluffy babies our mounts!?
Ugh, why did it have to be alpacas...
The beasts are sure-footed, that's for certain.
May I introduce to you our most dependable companion─the alpaca!
These animals can traverse Urqopacha's steep mountain trails as if they were gentle fields, and all while carrying heavy loads. Our merchants would be lost without them!
So they fill much the same niche as our chocobos back home.
You don't have alpacas in Eorzea?
Alpacas are native to Yok Tural. Eorzea has its chocobos, and the eastern lands have their horses. Why go to the trouble of breeding another pack beast in a place which ill suits its qualities and where it is not needed anyway?
Hm... But must we ride these little monsters?
I get the impression you aren't fond of alpacas.
When I was small─and being a bit naughty─I went around pulling on their wool. One of them spat on me, and it was the foulest stench you can imagine...
Haha, I see...
What are they like to ride?
Alpacas bred as mounts are inquisitive and docile. Even those without experience find them easy to handle.
We're really doing this, then...
So...was my information useful to you?
I... Yes, very helpful. Even if it wasn't what I wanted to hear...
Good! I'll take my payment now!
You want me to pay you!?
...I guess I should've expected as much from a Pelu merchant. Let me see what I have on me.
The Pelupelu value the act of spreading joy through trade, as you should know. They take pride in making deals that benefit both parties.
Here you go! A fair price for your fair advice.
Yes! I made a trade with the Third Promise herself! My friends will never believe this!
I shall be on my way now. I wish you safe travels!
Off you go then, and thank you!
I better not get spit on again...
You brought that on yourself. Remain calm and gentle, and so will they.
I'm still not happy about this... But if we need to ride alpacas to reach Urqopacha, then that's what we'll do.
Turali poets of yore sang of a mountain that would stand tall even should all other lands sink beneath the sea.
Indomitable and eternal, it arises from Urqopacha—the hundred peaks of time.
Of all the beasts which crawl and fly, only the legendary Valigarmanda could hope to disturb the summit's serene majesty.
Yet with that flying calamity imprisoned by the Dawnservant, what great feat remains for those who would claim the throne?
So this is Urqopacha... I've never actually been here before.
The air is so crisp and clear.
Mountains everywhere you look.
That one massive peak in particular has quite the presence. It puts me in mind of Sohm Al.
That is Worqor Zormor, the tallest mountain in Yok Tural. Its sheer height makes it an imposing climb, but there are other reasons the ambitious keep their distance...
Oh? Do tell.
Hmm, where to begin...
