Master Chai? Why yes, I spoke with him recently, though I recall he was in a rather dour mood. Concerned about Eulmore's neglect of industry, you see.
With Lord Vauthry's apparently inexhaustible stores of meol, and no great need for money, it's little wonder our businesses were all but forgotten under his rule.
But I assured Master Chai that the Boutique of Splendors will do all it can to contribute to the revival of trade here in Eulmore─which seemed to satisfy him. He took his leave soon after.
But I assured Master Chai that the Boutique of Splendors will do all it can to contribute to the revival of trade here in Eulmore─which seemed to satisfy him. He took his leave soon after.
Looking for Master Chai, are you? Is something amiss? When last I saw him, he seemed ready to collapse from exhaustion. I insisted he rest and catch his breath, and we talked for a while─about his concerns over the city's defenses amongst other things.
He made more than a few valid points. Many of our men are still recovering after your confrontation with Lord Vauthry, and finding General Ran'jit in a heap in the middle of the plaza shook us all to the core.
The man commanded no small amount of loyalty, and some of our longest-serving soldiers seemed lost without him. Indeed, a number of them left.
N-Not that we blame you, of course. Without you and yours, we would still be blind to the error of our ways.
Anyway...funding permitting, I proposed replenishing our ranks with volunteers from the Derelicts and Gatetown.
We have a duty to protect not only Eulmore, you see, but the surrounding regions of Kholusia as well, and I for one would welcome any man or woman willing to take up arms for that cause. Indeed, I told him as much, and he seemed relieved to hear it. It was on that note that we parted ways. He headed outside, as I recall.
We have a duty to protect not only Eulmore, you see, but the surrounding regions of Kholusia as well, and I for one would welcome any man or woman willing to take up arms for that cause. Indeed, I told him as much, and he seemed relieved to hear it. It was on that note that we parted ways. He headed outside, as I recall.
