Hello there! Come to ride the mehwapyarras, have you?
Here it is, the Cleyra Museum of Nature. The main building is closed due to the aether shortage, but happily they're still offering leisure flights.
And these are the fellows that will bear us. How adorable!
They don't look capable of flight...
Ahaha! Come now, you know better than to judge a creature by its appearance. This will be great, I just know it!
I know one shouldn't judge by appearance, but still...
Begging your pardon, but this is where you can go on leisure flights, yes?
Indeed it is! Bearing you will be our adorable mehwapyarras, who are especially trained by a Turali friend!
Just say the word, and we will send you up, up, and away!
And there you have it! Shall we, then?
It seems I'll have to trust to the theory of ancestral levitational predisposition...
In case you are unfamiliar, the theory holds that all life-forms have an innate capacity for levitational magicks. While said magicks generally remain latent, they may manifest in the ability to fly.
My guess is that the mehwapyarras themselves cannot fly, but rather their saddles are imbued with levitation magicks.
You are ready? Then go ahead and mount up. The mehwapyarras fly a set route, so you need only relax and enjoy the view!
Hahaha! How exhilarating!
I'll be damned... They really do fly...
Hey, the way we're flying in formation, don't we look like migrating birds?
Except we're on giant rodents...
Speaking of migrating birds, the mallard is where your name comes from. Did I ever tell you that?
That I knew, but I learned it from the shamaness, not from you.
A migrating bird can fly anywhere it desires─even across oceans to distant continents.
And you've done just that, my clever mallard!
I'd thank you not to call me that!
Oh dear, is it over already? Time really does fly when you have fun!
What a joy to see Living Memory from up high!
...
Ahhh, that was wonderful! An experience worth saving for the very end!
You two enjoyed yourselves as well, I trust?
It was enjoyable enough, I suppose.
From my fussy bunbun, that's high praise. I'm glad I invited you and Forename.
Thank you for indulging me.
...
If I could, I'd go for another hundred rides, but I must settle for the one.
It's time we were headed to the Aero Terminal. If there are still things you wish to do, you'll want to do them now.
When you're ready, make your way along the path yonder. I'll find the others and let them know the same.
Please come and fly again any time!
She's only a facsimile constructed from her memories. I understand this.
But when she's right there, as alive and spirited as I've ever known her, how am I supposed to do it? How am I supposed to erase her?
Does she even know how it tears me apart?
We saw you from below. It looked like you were having fun.
We'll be there for Erenville.
It will be hard, but let us send Cahciua off with a smile.
It's not fair...
How delightful this has been! Not since my journey with the Dawnservant have I enjoyed myself so!
No, I'm selling it short. This was even better.
And that's because I was able to share this adventure with my darling boy.
Well, this is as far as I can go. As for the rest...
Just stop. You're doing it again. Deciding everything by yourself and then disappearing.
Elene'shpya. You're my pupil, so you ought to understand.
Everything that lives must one day die, and that which has died isn't meant to return. This is the way of nature.
Mine is an unnatural existence, and I've suffered it only because I had to unmake this twisted mausoleum.
But now that brave souls have appeared to whom I might entrust my mission, I may finally embrace the end.
Can't you be happy for me?
How could I be happy?
...I was actually quite scared, you see.
Scared that I'd be trapped inside the barrier forever, and denied the thrill of discovery for all my days.
Your coming gave me courage and comfort, Elene'shpya. More than you know.
And now, here I stand, unburdened and free! In this moment─the happiest of my life.
As you wish, Mother. I'll continue what you began.
You were right, of course─leaving home has broadened my horizons. I've met my friends and found this place.
So I bid you leave your dreams with me...
And know─I'll go where you couldn't go and do what you couldn't do! I will!
Look at you, all grown up and dependable.
Yet with so much more ahead. A world of experiences await you─each a lesson of its own.
You may know failure, and burning regret...but these too shall become beacons to guide you. So come what may, hold your head high and carry on with conviction.
And wherever your journeys take you, keep me close to your heart, will you?
I should like to be there, to see what I haven't seen.
You will be, Mother.
Now, run along. And never forget that you're my pride and joy.
I trust you all can handle the rest. Take care─and farewell!
I couldn't have asked for more fulfilling final hours than these.
I'm so happy to have met you, Forename. You and everyone. Thank you for the memories.
And thank you for watching over my Elene'shpya. He'll be fine now, I know it.
No more doubts. I will shut the terminal down.
Let's see our task through to the end.
We carry on, with their hopes and memories in our hearts.
We'll leave this to you, Erenville.
Aye, I won't waver. Not anymore.
If you're ready yourselves, then so am I.
That makes all of them.
All that remains is to wait for the Meso Terminal to become vulnerable, when it's about to initiate fusion. And then we strike.
Please be advised: we are entering the final phase of world bridging. Repeat: we are entering the final phase of world bridging.
The aether of all residents will shortly be replenished. Be at ease─no action on your part is required.
We thank you for your patience.
Wait─it's already begun!?
No time for tears... Just as well.
We won't let Cahciua's hopes be in vain!
Let us finish this!
Not a moment too soon... It's as if she's saying she won't let us do as we please anymore.
Through our time here, we've come to know what it is Sphene seeks to protect.
But that doesn't change what we have to do!
We'll carry out Cahciua's plan. It's our best chance at stopping Sphene.
It will be dangerous, I shouldn't doubt. We are all prepared, I assume?
That goes without saying. Come, we head to the Meso Terminal!
Whatever it takes, we must protect that which we hold dear.
I will do my part too.
My parents are watching over us, I'm sure of it. As is my grandfather.
No good. It seems we can't simply shut down the Meso Terminal like the others.
Not surprising in the least. My mother did tell us its defenses are tight.
But she also left me a means of circumventing them: a program that will send your souls into the terminal's memory banks.
Therein lies a virtual domain generated by Sphene's memories.
So we would venture into this domain, and thence seek out and stop Sphene.
If our souls are transferred in their entirety, dying in that domain would be no different from dying outside of it. There is no guarantee of safe return.
Nonetheless, that is a risk we must take.
We've already come this far, and I'll be damned if I'm going to turn back now.
By meeting the Endless, I've gained a better understanding of Sphene and the burden she bears.
I want to say a few things to her when we meet again...even if it doesn't make a difference.
Whatever happens, we won't let Sphene walk her misguided path any longer!
I'll do all I can to provide support. Mother has instructed me on her program as well as the world within the terminal.
I'll also keep an eye on your bodies while you are gone.
Should it come to it, though, I won't hesitate to call on our comrades outside. I'm acutely aware of my limits.
Upon entering the terminal, we will most certainly meet with fierce resistance from its defenses.
Then there is Sphene herself. In order to initiate interdimensional fusion, she said that she intends to erase her own memories. What manner of entity she will become as a result, none can say.
And if she invokes the key and opens portals to other worlds, she would have access to vast amounts of aether to bring to bear against us. We must be prepared for anything.
Whatever we encounter won't change our objective. And it won't change what I'll do.
Come, my friends! It's time to settle this!
Come back alive, do you hear? Else I can't repay you for everything you've done.
A part of me still clings to the hope that we can avoid fighting Sphene. But even if we can't, I want to see her people and their legacy live on.
I don't know what awaits at the end of this path. But together, we'll walk it all the way!
Since we averted the Final Days, it has been one existential threat after another. And now lives in all reflections hang in the balance.
But considering the key and the power it wields, I cannot help but feel a sense of destiny in our being here. Would you not agree, my friend?
As much as we've been able to learn, there is still much and more we do not know about the key.
What I do know, however, is that interdimensional fusion must be stopped. This is the mission I've inherited from my parents, and I will see it done!
To the memories of better days, I bid farewell...
We're inside Sphene's memories...
Is this Alexandria as it was when she lived?
