Well met, traveler. What business brings you here?
Yes, of course! Right this way.
No matter how far he goes, man cannot resist looking back on the path he has walked.
The untold stories and secret of the past can be more alluring than the promise of tomorrow.
And so he braves the forests of Rak'tika in search of mystery and wonder.
Of Ronka, to which all seekers of hidden truths are inevitably drawn...
We have arrived.
Vast though these woods may be, they are, by and large, uninhabitable.
Not so the swamps of Citia, however, whose sparse foliage permitted man a foothold.
"No lands must remain beyond our grasp. Go forth. Conquer. Rule.“
Forgive me. A sudden pang of nostalgia for those halcyon days.
Exploring virgin territories, subjugating primitive peoples. All for the glory of Garlemald!
If you've brought your ivory standard, I'll be happy to tell you where to stick it.
Can we not simply take a moment to enjoy the view together? Or would you rather I spied on you from the shadows?
Much more of this, and I may very well begin to regret my show of good faith.
If...if you really want to stay, then help us fight.
Mmm... No, I think not. I am an observer─nothing more.
Even shielded by the shadows of these boughs, I feel the Light's presence most keenly.
To accompany you is taxing enough. To fight is out of the question.
I will suffer your company if I must, but not your commentary.
What is it now? Do you expect me to regale you with friendly banter?
...Oh, very well. I will humor you this once. You may consider it my latest act of good faith. Come on, then. What do you wish to know?
Well, well, what a curious question.
Mortal flesh is but the vessel into which we Ascians pour the elixir of our souls, molding it as fits the occasion. Or not, if we so choose.
Be it for a year or a millennium, I prefer to retain the same form until my duty is done. So, after arriving here in the First, I fashioned some hapless body into the man you see before you.
Though as your friend over there can attest, there are those of us who forgo such alterations.
He was ever the rash one, Lahabrea. Jumping from vessel to vessel. Never heeding the toll it took on him.
If you've nothing to ask me, why are you still here? Don't you have Wardens to vanquish? A realm to save?
'Tis plain our Ascian counterpart meaneth to follow wheresoever we lead. Were it otherwise, he would not suffer the overabundance of light in these woods.
Verily, it pervadeth every corner... And so long as the Lightwarden remaineth, the sin eaters shall be free to prey upon these lands without surcease. If naught is done, 'tis but a matter of time before the Blessed succumb.
Two years past, a swarm of sin eaters did lay waste unto their largest settlement, killing a great many of their priests in so doing.
Though some few did survive, they knew not how to go on. Wayward souls in want of a guiding hand. For a mercy, Y'shtola hath provided that which they sorely needed.
They have since endeavored to restore their home, and thither shall we bend our steps─to Fort Gohn.
I see little sign of recent activity, nor hath any meaningful progress been made with the reconstruction...
Mayhap Y'shtola sought shelter elsewhere. Come, let us quit this place.
