How are you feeling, my lady?
Much the better for my comrades' ministrations, and your most generous hospitality. You need not worry.
Good... If there is anything else we can do for the two of you─anything at all─just ask.
Stare any harder and you're like to burn a hole in them.Go and say your piece for goodness' sake!
I've got nothing more to say to them!I'm going to find out how the others are getting on.
Gosetsu, Mistress Alisaie─I owe you an apology.I acted with reckless disregard for my own safety, and endangered I know not how many others in so doing.
Scorning your wise counsel, I knowingly defied our master's wishes, and left you no choice but to follow suit.
Nonsense. I followed our master's wishes to the letter. Consider once more his words, and the intent therein.
In offering his head, he but sought to shield his people from harm─loyal retainers included. You must value your life more highly, shadow walker.
On the other hand, your recklessness did serve as an inspiration to many. Mayhap you should not be so hard on yourself...
In any event, if you must apologize profusely, it seems only right that you expend as much effort thanking the one person who supported your plan from the first.
That it does. There are no words which will suffice...but thank you.
Aaaaaand there they are!
Twelve be praised! When I learned of your rather questionable plot to assassinate Zenos, I feared we would need to recruit a new primal slayer.
I'm sorry we couldn't be there.Alisaie made me swear to stay behind no matter what.
I think she was worried I'd hurl myself at Zenos the moment I set eyes on him.
...What?
You'll forgive me for changing the subject, but now would seem a good time to discuss where we go from here. Though the Empire has yet to retaliate, the fact remains that we have revealed our presence, and signaled our intentions in so doing. It is only a matter of time before the imperials move against us.
Given that we lack the strength to oppose them, 'tis plain some manner of brilliant stratagem is required. Therefore, I yield the floor to the preeminent tactician of our time, with whom I was privileged to share a womb.
If you insist... While in Kugane we debated a number of approaches and were eventually forced to concede that we cannot look to the Alliance for aid.
Even were it possible to ferry sufficient forces and materiel from Eorzea in a timely manner, such a massive undertaking would not long escape the attention of the Empire. 'Twould be a miracle if our ships reached the shore.
Fortunately, according to Tataru and Hancock's intelligence, the Empire has withdrawn most of its forces from Doma in the past year, leaving her relatively unguarded.
That being the case, a popular uprising spearheaded by the full might of the Doman Liberation Front may feasibly be sufficient to threaten the seat of provincial government, namely Doma Castle. 'Twould be rather easier said than done, of course, but I have seen worse plans prevail.
Then we must needs meet with Lord Hien and convince him to return, for there is no surer way to inspire our people to rise up as one.
He desired proof of his subjects' conviction, and they have provided it─through no less a deed than openly opposing Zenos himself!
It will work. It has to work. And next time, we will defeat him...
I will be traveling to the Azim Steppe, Forename.
I found Lord Hien once before, and I am confident I can do so again. Moreover, it was to me whom he put the question of Doma's resolve. I feel it my duty to deliver to him our people's reply.
Our countrymen's deeds speak for themselves. Lord Hien cannot deny the truth of their hearts.
Too long has it been since I looked on his face. It would be of great comfort to see him again─and no small comfort if you were to join us in the search, I should add!
I wonder what kind of man Hien is. From what I heard, he's about the same age as me. And then there's Fordola, who isn't a whole lot younger than us both...
Like her, he was born and raised in an imperial province. This is all he's ever known. But unlike her, he chose to do something about it...
I want to meet him. I want to know why. Maybe, if I understand that, it'll help me to understand a lot of other things...
The beloved king returning to urge his countrymen to rise up in rebellion. Not a story you'd ever hear in Sharlayan or Ul'dah, is it?
Not in those words, perhaps, but no land's people is so cynical to be wholly immune to inspiration. Singular individuals have the power to move hearts and minds no matter where they go.
Mmmhm. Doubtless you speak from personal experience.
As much as this Lord Hien intrigues us, Forename, there are vital tasks to be attended to here─preparations for the inevitable assault on Doma Castle, for one.
There is also the matter of coordinating our efforts with the Confederacy and our comrades in Kugane, dealing with this troublesome aetheryte─I could go on, but you understand.
...Aye, so it goes. We all have our responsibilities.
We shall depart for the Azim Steppe at once.
You will be joining us, Forename?
For our part, we shall do what we can to aid the Doman Liberation Front in your absence.
We will refrain from conducting any large-scale operations in your absence, and instead devote our energies to bolstering our ranks and training our new recruits. When you return, we will be ready for war.
If anything happens, if you need us to come back sooner, you'd better contact us. “Noble sacrifices” are a last resort, remember?
Follow me, my friends. We have many malms to travel before we reach Reunion.
Wait! Don't leave yet!
Here, take these for the road. It's simple fare, but it's the least we can do for you, after what you did for us.
...It may be stupid and naive of me to say this, but I will.
When you come back, we'll finish what we started. We'll beat the imperials and we'll win our freedom! So...don't keep us waiting too long!
When you come back, we'll finish what we started. We'll beat the imperials and we'll win our freedom! So...don't keep us waiting too long!
...I would expect no less of Bahamut's conqueror.
Prepare the airship. His Radiance will not object; we have fulfilled our obligations here. I would see this prize for myself...
Do you understand why I appointed you to act in my stead? You, whose only accomplishment was to whisper the right words in the right ear?
Because of your petty hatreds.They render you the perfect instrument to bleed your kinsmen of hope─to make an example of Doma, such as was ordered.
Listen well.
If you yield Doma to the rebels, you will not be given another chance to beg forgiveness.
Do your duty. Now. Or die with the rest of them.
A-Are you all right, my lady? That was uncalled for...
They say your Eorzean is helping the rebels.
I want her dead. I want her friends dead. I want the heads of everyone she knows and loves mounted on the castle walls!
You mean...you mean I can finally go after her?
Bwahahahaha! I've been waiting for this chance! I promise you, my lady─she won't escape this time! Not this time, oh no!
Bwahahahaha! I've been waiting for this chance! I promise you, my lady─she won't escape this time! Not this time, oh no!
Aye, this is the place.
...When his shade was banished, you swore to leave this life behind.And yet here you are...
Yet if this be the work of the Eyes, what choice do you have but to end it? <sigh> Or so the boy would say. Damn you, Alphinaud.
If all are ready, let us depart for Reunion in the Azim Steppe.
Our route will be somewhat circuitous. We will need to return to the Ruby Sea and head north along the coast, past Isari...
From here we will turn north until we arrive at a cave, through which we must pass in order to reach the Azim Steppe.
Lyse and Gosetsu have already gone on ahead. We should carry on as well.
I remember the emptiness. Vast and endless.The Azim Steppe, home to countless roaming tribes.
A sacred land watched over by elder gods. Here we would find Doma's salvation.
With the wind at our backs we walked on. In search of hope. In search of him.
I give you the Azim Steppe, Forename. Though I should say that this is but one small portion of it.
Despite the close proximity, Domans rarely venture this far north. Most find these lands and their people strange and foreign...
Fortunately, those who frequent Reunion are more welcoming than most. Come─it is not much further.
Welcome to Reunion, my friends. Here is where we will begin our search for Lord Hien.
When last I spoke with Lord Hien, he said he spent much time in these markets. I had hoped we might find him here today, but alas...
Hey, Yugiri, I've been meaning to ask─there are an awful lot of Xaela here, aren't there?
Oh, I assumed you knew. The Azim Steppe has been home to the nomadic tribes of the Xaela since antiquity.
More than fifty roam these lands, and though they do not constitute a nation, there is a hierarchy of sorts, determined through ritual combat.
Funny... If they're so busy fighting each other, you'd think the Empire would be able to march in and take the Steppe with ease. I wonder why they haven't...
Why indeed, Lyse? Why indeed...
Perhaps they see little value in it, especially given the fierce reputation of the Xaela warriors who would fight tooth and nail to oppose them.
These lands were not made for men. The soil is thin, and the weather unforgiving.
The Xaela found ways to survive, it is true. But they are made of sterner stuff than most imperials─conscript or citizen.
Thanks for taking the time to explain. It sounds like I've got a lot to learn. Later, I mean. We're meant to be looking for Hien!
People from many tribes gather in Reunion to trade goods and information. I should be surprised if we cannot learn something of value here.
Let us make our inquiries separately. Forename, why don't you speak with some of the merchants here?
