They regaled me with tales of a champion amongst champions, one whose tireless service to the crown merited the highest honor we might bestow.
Never did it occur to me that it might be you. Bring it forth!
Betokening our gratitude and esteem, I, Nanamo Ul Namo, Sultana of Ul'dah, confer upon you this gift.
Raubahn.
Your Grace.
See to it that our champion is my personal guest at the banquet.
As you command, Your Grace.
If what they say is true, Ul'dah owes you a great debt.
I am Raubahn Aldynn. With the consent of Her Grace, I oversee the affairs of the sultanate.
Brave souls are few and far between in these times. I count my blessings when I find one.
Her Grace invites you to join her at the coming banquet. I trust I will see you there.
An honor!
Huzzah!
Indeed.
Come, hero!
Until then.
For the sake of Her Grace, and the glory of the sultanate, may you walk in the light of the Crystal.
By the Twelve, Forename! For an adventurer to receive a personal invitation from Her Grace is unprecedented!
Seats at these banquets are offered only to the most distinguished individuals. You will be dining with some of the most influential people in Ul'dah.
There are, of course, certain protocols that must be observed.
...But I am no authority on them. Fear not, however─Mistress Momodi has long been responsible for familiarizing foreign guests with our customs.
Pray return to the Quicksand and speak with her. She will tell you all you need know.
Welcome back, Forename, and congratulations on your invite to the big soirée!
To be honest, I never imagined I'd be explainin' these procedures to you. It's usually only foreign dignitaries who get to hear me prattle on and on about royal traditions. Anyroad, I know you're a busy woman, so I'll keep it short and sweet.
In accordance with ancient custom, all guests to this banquet are required to wear a pair of ceremonial earrin's, made 'specially for the occasion. They're meant to symbolize─ Actually, forget about that. This was meant to be the short version. Ahem. Bein' of a design unique to the occasion, the earrin's serve as a security measure. The Sultansworn won't let you near the hall without 'em.
Your set should be ready and waitin' for you at the Goldsmiths' Guild. Mistress Serendipity is expectin' you, so you'll want to head down there now.
Once you've got them, bring them back here and we'll continue.
