Greetings, Warrior of Light.
This is a world that exists outside your reality. Could it be a dream? A flight of fancy conjured by your weary mind? Perhaps...or perhaps not.
'Tis a pleasure to make your acquaintance. My name is Naoki Yoshida, and I have beckoned you here that I might express my gratitude.
'Tis a pleasure to meet you again. As I have in the past, I have beckoned you here that I might express my gratitude.
Ten years have now passed since the world was reborn from its ashes. Since we set forth upon this journey.
Countless things have happened during that time, and I've had the pleasure of meeting many an adventurer along the way.
If truth be told, it hasn't always been easy. There are moments when I wonder why I must struggle so. Days when I'm tempted to cast it all aside.
But in spite of this, I always manage to carry on, and it is thanks to my wonderful comrades─and to you, our esteemed adventurers.
By now, I must have been regaled with tens of thousands of your tales. You usually share them with a smile, but even when it is with a frown, you tell me that you're still enjoying yourself.
'Tis no exaggeration to say that I derive all of my driving force from you all. From the bottom of my heart, I thank you.
Ours is an unending journey, and nothing would make me happier than if we could keep walking it together.
As you make your way, we promise that we will ever be at your side, matching you step for step.
...Now, the time has come for this vision to end; time for your eyes to open from this waking dream.
Much time has passed since the world was reborn from its ashes. Countless souls have made this place their home; every single one has left an indelible mark upon it.
Together we have built this world, and it is our sincerest hope that we shall continue to do so for many years to come.
So please be safe and well. May you ever walk in the Light of the Crystal.
I daresay Nhagi is aboard the airship by now. I pray that he and Kipih will find happiness upon their respective paths.
I hope you do so as well, my friend. If you would lend me an ear, I would dedicate these verses to your future.
By morning light the journey starts,A trill of hope within our hearts.♪On westerly wind, to river song,Into the world, where we belong.♪
'Bove fields of white an azure sky,Sunset's storm a crimson fire.♪Jewels aglitter on pitch-black veil,A new day dawns, so goes the tale.♪
By eternal wind we carry on,Boldly towards a golden morn.♪With mem'ries as a guiding star,Shining our steps both near and far.♪
Where you will go, whom you will meet, what you will see... There is no telling what the future holds for anyone.
Yet come what may, I bid you never forget this: the bonds you forge, the memories you make, and the footprints you leave behind─they shall one day spur you forward.
So pray continue walking your own path. Wherever your journey leads, I shall be praying for your happiness.
So pray continue walking your own path. Wherever your journey leads, I shall be praying for your happiness.
To all who follow their hearts, I offer my hopes in song. Wheresoever your journeys may lead you, may you find happiness upon your path...
