Hm? A hawker, are you?
A hawker, are you? Do you sell fruit, by chance?
If so, I want to buy some amra. Let's say a dozen. They don't need to be export quality.
Um...no? As I said, it's amra that I want. If I wanted fish, I would've asked for it!
Um...no? As I said, it's amra that I want. If I wanted fish, I would've asked for it!
Oh well... If it's not what they want, then there's no point forcing it. Let's move on to the north side of town, shall we?
Why, for eating, of course! It may seem like a lot, but of late, I go through that much in no time at all.
I am a stocktaker by trade, but with no vessels coming these days, the wares are beginning to pile up.
By the same token, nothing is coming in from overseas. But not a day goes by that someone doesn't come asking when the next shipment is arriving for this and that and this and that...
All of it wears me down, and I find myself feeling constantly hungry...
You know, when I think on it, I'm not so sure...
Rather than hungry, perhaps I've been feeling...unfulfilled? And I try to fill the void by gorging on food I like.
Heh, I'll try not to, thank you. Perhaps it's for the best you don't sell fruit. Still, I enjoyed our chat. It took my mind off my troubles for a moment.
Heh, I'll try not to, thank you. Perhaps it's for the best you don't sell fruit. Still, I enjoyed our chat. It took my mind off my troubles for a moment.
N-Never mind. If nothing else, you left her with a positive impression. Let's move on to the north side of town, shall we?
Fish? I do like fish, as a matter of fact. Why do you ask?
Oh, so you're a fishmonger! Apologies for the misunderstanding!
Hmm... Seeing as you're here, do you happen to have Akyaali sardine? They're perfect in a spicy soup.
We certainly do, madam! And if you like it spicy, I also recommend them pickled in oil with a generous amount of chilies.
Oh, that does sound like a wonderful challenge! I didn't have fish in mind at first, but I daresay I'll enjoy these. Thank you!
Oh, that does sound like a wonderful challenge! I didn't have fish in mind at first, but I daresay I'll enjoy these. Thank you!
Thank you. A pity you don't sell fruit, but I enjoyed our little chat! It took my mind off my troubles for a moment.
Thank you. A pity you don't sell fruit, but I enjoyed our little chat! It took my mind off my troubles for a moment.
N-Never mind. If nothing else, you left her with a positive impression. Let's move on to the north side of town, shall we?
Don't lose heart yet. We'll sell something to the next person, I'm sure of it!
Not a bad result so far... Let's see if we can finish on a high note!
We're doing great so far... Dare I hope that we can make it three of three?
O-Oh, did you have other things you needed to do? In that case, I'll head back to the pier for now...
In my work keeping stock of inventory, I can see exactly how bad business has gotten. It makes me depressed...
