Hail, Forename! Lord Drillemont has apprised me of the situation. You may enter the Stone Vigil whensoever you will.
It will take more than a few dragons to stop us.
Seven hells. I pray we don't face another of those beasts.
So it was this dragon who set the halls ablaze.
Hopefully we've no more fires to worry about.
Look! It's the Enterprise!
Yes...just beyond that enormous sleeping dragon.
The dragon is not our concern. We have come for the airship, and only the airship.
Cid─you and I will sneak aboard the Enterprise and prepare it for launch.
Forename─you stay here and keep an eye on the beast.
If it wakes, we may need you to provide a distraction until we are ready to depart. You can manage that, can't you?
That settles it, then. Shall we, Cid?
As you command...
...So you mean to slay Garuda next? Interesting. Most interesting.
And you are aware that her strength greatly exceeds that of your previous primal conquests? ...A testament to the fanatical devotion of her followers. The Ixal are nothing if not zealous.
In spite of your past achievements, I labor to believe that you will best this foe.
Yet only a fool would underestimate the great Bringer of Light, slayer of Ifrit, bane of Titan...
If any mortal is capable of defeating the Lady of the Vortex, it is you.
Win or lose, the battle should at least make for an entertaining spectacle....Assuming, of course, you live that long.
    			Cid: Alphinaud! The dragon!
Alphinaud: Confound it all!
 Let us see how well your blasphemous gifts serve you this time, crystal bearer!
Alphinaud! The dragon!
Confound it all!
Let us see how well your blasphemous gifts serve you this time, crystal bearer!
We'll need to be careful with this one.
Forename! Forename! Are you all right? Speak to me!
Twelve be praised, I feared the beast had injured you.
I see now why the others rated you so highly. When you were caught in the midst of that aetheric bubble with the dragon, I was all but certain my next mission would be to find a new champion.
Thank the gods for sparing me that inconvenience. I have quite enough to do already. Which reminds me─Cid is working on the Enterprise as we speak. Let us go and see what he has to say.
What say you, Cid? Will she fly?
Yes...though it will not be a pleasant ride.
Well, I daresay it will be no more unpleasant than staying here. 'Tis a pity the Enterprise is not in a better state, but if she will allow us to quit this place, I shall not complain.
If all are in agreement, let us return to Gridania.
Though I would like nothing more than to set course for the Howling Eye, it is plain the Enterprise is in no condition to weather the storm. She must needs be repaired if we are to proceed with our mission.
This is all so familiar. I...I know this airship. If I could just...
Bah, it's no use.
...Let's go.
Ah, how I have longed for the more agreeable climate of the Twelveswood.
Yet I will not deny the Holy See had its charms. Endless detours aside, our Ishgardian jaunt proved quite an adventure!
Alas, our work is far from done. We still have an airship to repair and a primal to slay. No rest for the heroic, eh?
It calms me to look at her.
It's as though I've been reunited with a part of me I never knew was missing...
Hardly surprising. You did design and build her.
I bear good news! The Seedseers have granted our request to house the Enterprise. We may take as long as we require to repair her.
Of course, it would be rank folly to take one moment more than we require. Garuda, lest we forget, grows stronger by the hour. If we are to have any hope of wresting this benighted realm from her talons, it must needs be soon.
Though I am no expert on the workings of airships, it seems plain to me that the Enterprise suffered much from her time in the wilderness. Am I not correct, Cid?
You are. Frankly, it's a miracle she carried us this far.
As you know, the Howling Eye is encircled by a raging tempest, apt to turn proud trees to matchwood. Our battle will end before it begins if the Enterprise cannot weather the storm.
Given time, I believe I can fully repair her...
But if this tempest is as fearsome as you say, even that may not be enough.
<sigh> Confound it. There must be a way...a way to brave the fury of the elements...
...The elements. But of course! That's it!
We work upon the element itself! Using the power of a corrupted crystal, we could clear a path through the storm, and spare the Enterprise a battering!
I see! You propose to utilize the properties of a crystal to alter the elemental aspect of the barrier! It seems so childishly simple in retrospect!
Though mayhap not to you, Forename. We speak of the manifestations of over-aspected aether that can be found throughout Eorzea.
Since the Calamity disrupted the land's aetheric currents, such crystals have become comparatively commonplace.
...Which has been a cause of great woe, as they are known to warp aetheric energies, including those of living organisms.
The point is, we could theoretically use a corrupted crystal to convert the wind-aspected aether comprising Garuda's barrier into aether of another aspect─one she cannot control.
With certain modifications, the Enterprise should be able to deliver us to the Howling Eye in comfort, however hard Garuda blows...
But we are getting ahead of ourselves. All of this rests upon our ability to procure a crystal with the necessary properties. Have you any idea where we might acquire one?
No. But I know a man who might. A scholar by the name of Lamberteint, who resides in Camp Drybone.
Strange as it may sound, I met him during my time at the church. Well, Marques met him, I suppose. Whether out of pity, or for want of a more willing listener, he would talk to me for hours at a time about his aetheric studies, corrupted crystals being his pet subject. It was as a result of these conversations that poor Marques was observed to possess an uncommon knack for theoretical science...
Forename, I need you to return to Thanalan and seek out this scholar. Cid and I will set about repairing the Enterprise in your absence.
