Travelers...? Ah, of course, of course. The ones who wished to know why we seek to regain corporeal forms.
The truth of the matter is as plain to see as the neighboring systems, but my single account would fail to satisfy the requirement for scientific objectivity. Thus did I bid them awaken you.
Am I the only one who struggles to tell who is speaking?
Nay, thou art not. In the absence of corporeal forms and the divergence they afford, mayhap such similarity in voice is unavoidable.
By the way, Coph-coodg─have you already observed the requisite custom for the travelers?
That which one is expected to do when receiving guests. A matter of proper form.
Ahhh, yes. So long has it been, it had completely escaped my mind...and still does. What was it again? I can't seem to remember...
Neither do I. Pity. I was hoping you would...
Perhaps we can search the archives for the answer.
Come now, Neh-needg, the archives have long been frozen, lest we subject ourselves to further dolor. Surely you recall that much.
...Ah, of course. Food─the custom is to serve food.
Beings of flesh such as they must regularly replenish their aether. By contributing to their replenishment, we communicate our friendly intention.
That's right, that's right!
We duly invite you to join us in communal repast, after which we may engage in leisurely conversation.
If we have a chance to learn something, then I see no reason to decline.
Excellent. If you would care to follow, we shall feast you on the purest aether.
Judging by the construction of this facility, 'twould seem the Ea directly draw upon the aether.
Aether, they said, but I can't help but feel a bit nervous...
If it is as I suspect, then this so-called feast...
...Actually, let us just see it for ourselves. Fear not─we are not like to come to harm.
We were told to stand wherever we like. This strikes me as less of a meal and more a ritual...
If they are thus able to replenish their aether, the loss of vital sustenance isn't like to be the cause of their demise.
Throughout the universe, but few races have completely shed their flesh as we have. As a result, we seldom receive visitors from other systems.
Extreme differences can inhibit meaningful interaction, you see, and none more so than those which affect communication. Most entities, for example, cannot even comprehend our words.
You are rare indeed in your ability to do so. You avail yourselves of dynamis, yes? It is an impressive application...even if it is ultimately pointless like all the rest.
To think that I had forgotten what had become of the archives... How much has my essence deteriorated since last I was awake?
Not that I am averse to having my mind fade away in this manner. It isn't so unlike the natural degradation of one's flesh. How delightful.
How much aether would be adequate for your kind, I wonder... As I recall, there is a fine line between optimal satiation and violent sickness.
This facility is where we replenish our aether. There is no particular name for it, but we traditionalists sometimes use the word “restaurant.”
Now then, if you would take your place with your comrades, the space will soon be awash with purest aether. Please absorb as much as you like.
If you are worried about the quality of aether, don't be. We guarantee it is the purest stuff.
If you are worried about the quality of aether, don't be. We guarantee it is the purest stuff.
If you are worried about the quality of aether, don't be. We guarantee it is the purest stuff.
Just as I had suspected. As meticulously as one might recreate the Ea's home world, this is Ultima Thule. One cannot simply generate aether here.
As recreations, our friends are oblivious to this fact. To the very truth of their existence. Much like the phantoms of the recreated Amaurot.
However appearances may seem, we must ever be mindful that it is the memories of the dead with whom we deal.
So, did you have your fill of aether?
Alas, we couldn't absorb it. A deficiency in our forms, it would seem.
Oh, how very unfortunate... May I ask how you normally replenish your aether?
Through your mouths, you say! How very primitive and quaint!
To think that their mouths serve not only to expel sound, but draw in sustenance besides... Such life-forms have long since vanished from our systems!
Though we regrettably could not partake of your magnificent feast, rest assured we feel your welcome most keenly.
In the course of acquainting ourselves with your sophisticated ways, however, we could not fail but wonder: wherefore do you wish to obtain vessels of flesh, and thence to vanish? Will you not favor us with an explanation?
You flesh-and-blood beings are always so hasty. It does have its charm, however...
Very well, we shall indulge you. In the beginning, when the Ea yet possessed corporeal bodies, our ancestors dedicated themselves to the pursuit of knowledge and technological advancement.
By transcending all limitations, we believed we would eliminate sorrow and abide in true happiness.
From the tangible such as land to the intangible such as labor, there exist myriad hindrances to progress. But the most confining of all was the flesh itself.
Our natural lifespan was distressingly middling, you see. Too short to enjoy unhurried lives, yet too long to be considered disposable.
Furthermore, to simply maintain the integrity of our bodies demanded considerable resources.
But we managed to solve this problem.
After long years, we discovered how to become noncorporeal entities with everlasting lives, untroubled by the failures of the flesh.
Thus changed, we had more time and freedom to continue our scientific pursuits.
We went on to make ever greater strides in our quest to transcend all limitations, until we finally decided to challenge the last of them all: the limit of knowledge.
That is to say, deciphering the laws of creation.
We sought to discover how the universe came into being and explain all extant phenomena, and thence predict the future.
If we could but achieve this, we believed that we would be free from uncertainty and anxiety.
And did you find the answers you sought?
Yes, we did. Our efforts revealed to us a fundamental truth.
Knowledge of said truth is essential for the continuation of our conversation. If you would learn more, we will share it with you.
No, we mustn't. Primitive as they are, it would be unspeakably cruel to deprive them of their ignorance.
They are possessed of corporeal forms, their lives readily ended.
As those who have gone before, is it not our duty to warn them?
What thinkest thou...?
We have deliberated and come to a consensus.
If you are resolved to know it, we will disclose to you the truth we discovered. The truth of the universe.
Seek us at the stone pillars just outside the bounds of the abode. A place called Elegeia.
'Tis true that a lack of knowledge can beget fear. Therefore, in theory, by acquiring all knowledge, it may be possible to attain peace.
But as Hydaelyn told us, all those peoples who attempted to free their worlds from life's woes met with failure.
And the Ea are among them, as their presence here attests. The tale we are about to hear will not be a happy one.
To define the laws of creation would have been no small feat, even for the Ea. Nay, having eternal life, and hence no sense of haste, would only have made it harder.
Such tremendous drive for knowledge they once must have had, and I struggle to reconcile it with the listless beings before us. Whatever answers they found, it did not bring them happiness.
Like her master, Y'shtola seeketh the truth of creation.
How will the truth of the Ea, who uncovered all only to desire the end, fall upon her ears...?
You may be intimately familiar with a problem─know it like the back of your hand─yet be powerless to solve it.
In the course of my struggles, I've often been made keenly aware of this fact. I wonder, have the Ea never felt the same frustration?
A fundamental truth...
We will hear it, of course. Let us learn what has led such an enlightened people to this indolent end.
Before we hear the climax of the Ea's tale, mayhap I should speak of...
...On second thought, it would only be a distraction. We will talk more when the time is right.
Ere we join the Ea, there is one trifling matter I would fain investigate.
Forename, G'raha Tia─might I trouble you for your assistance?
But of course.
My thanks. We shall head outside the abode, if you would kindly follow me.
I know not what mischief you are plotting, Urianger...but I trust you have our best interests at heart.
The rest of us shall go on ahead to Elegeia. Lest you worry, we won't start without you.
Go on and assist Urianger with his mysterious task. We shall wait for you.
There is naught but desert out there. What could Urianger wish to investigate?
As long as Urianger explains himself to you, then I shall be satisfied. Do lend him an ear in my stead.
A spring, and a sizable one at that... I hadn't noticed it amidst the dunes.
Aye, this place shall serve.
Is it the spring that you wished to investigate?
Pray forgive me, my friends...but there is naught to investigate.
'Twas but a pretense to speak in private.
You have our undivided attention.
As we have established, here in Ultima Thule, those denizens of ruined stars are recreated in their twilight days.
Yet one question doth arise in my mind.
So faithfully formed are the simulacra, they believe themselves yet amongst the living. How dost thou suppose this is possible?
I'm inclined to agree. If Meteion can take the emotions of others as her own, I daresay she would be able to recreate them more faithfully than had she relied on any historical account.
By which logic, she must have visited them while they still lived—the dragons and the Ea both!
Of course! She must have visited the stars of the dragons and the Ea before either race perished in their entirety.
Thus could she make their emotions her own, and with them create more faithful simulacra than had she relied on any historical account.
Wait... What if Meteion visited the dragons and the Ea while they still lived?
If so, she could have made their emotions her own, and with them create more faithful simulacra than had she relied on any historical account.
So too did I theorize and, upon that assumption, consider how those two races may have met their demise.
According to thine own tale, Meteion perceiveth the emotions of those nearby as her own.
A heightened sense of empathy intrinsic to her nature as an entelechy.
In the course of her starfaring journey, if she encountered beings who strongly desired a cessation of their existence...
She would be powerless before that desire.
Even as she possesseth the power to grant it─the power of dynamis.
'Tis my supposition that, overwhelmed by their longing for death, Meteion did unleash dynamis and ushered the dragons and the Ea unto their doom.
Of course, such was not always the outcome; full many stars did she find already lost to ruin.
In order to create a terminus, however, the fervent desire for the end is essential.
Therefore, should you struggle to find the way forward, pray ask yourselves this: in the place where you stand, whose is the soul that yearneth most desperately for oblivion?
Why do you tell us this now?
Ne'er again would I betray your trust. This pledge I did make to my comrades. In bringing thee into my confidence, I would remain true to my word.
As for thee... Let us consider it my fitting reward for the secrets I harbored for the Crystal Exarch.
I once placed my faith in thy chosen path, walking at thy side full knowing that we were bound for thy demise.
I ask now that thou returnest the favor, and abide in faith as I fulfill mine own destiny.
If you say my debt has come due, how am I to refuse?
'Tis indelicate of me, I know full well, and I can but beg thy forgiveness.
Yet even if I must needs go to such lengths, I cannot well feign ignorance of the answer I have found within...
The answer to the question: in what moment might I stand strongest?
After all that we've been through, I will say only this.
Do what you must. Do what you must, and see your conviction through.
I shall, my friend. I shall.
Without further ado, then, let us go to join our comrades.
...
Let us be off too. To Elegeia.
Oh, you are here already? Your comrades said you would be late...
We have prepared for our recounting. To facilitate comprehension, the information will be simplified to match your primitive minds.
Your companion in front─the one called Y'shtola. She seems the keenest to learn the truth. I pity her...
It would seem your star, too, has been plunged into a panic-induced cataclysm. We hope that our tale will not serve to exacerbate it...
I understand you've taken care of business. If you are ready to begin, then so are we.
While we waited, we mentioned our star's situation to the Ea. They nodded sagely...or something to that effect.
Come, let us hear the Ea's tale, and learn what caused such enlightened beings to crave nihility.
...Don't mind me.
It seems everyone is accounted for. Shall we, then?
Please, continue. Tell us about this truth you discovered.
Very well. Bear in mind, however, that the purpose of this conversation is not to impart scholarly knowledge. For such requires that you comprehend the subject matter─which you will not.
We will forgo the intricacies of our scientific methodology and deal only with the conclusion─the end of our society, and our world.
We acknowledge, with regret, that your star is in the midst of the same panic-induced cataclysm that befell Deneb III.
As such, in order to avoid causing undue distress, we will refrain from explicitly stating how much time you have remaining.
You are entirely too kind. I pray you recount your tale as you see fit.
In the beginning, the universe was but a tiny particle. Then suddenly, this particle began to expand.
Having remained entirely in the bounds of your star, the phenomenon may be difficult for your kind to grasp, but this expansion has since continued unabated.
Speculating that the universe could not grow indefinitely, we sought to learn what might occur─and made a worrying discovery.
The stars will continue to spread apart, as will their finite thermal energies.
Eventually, all heavenly bodies will grow cold and freeze. No new stars will be born, and the universe will enter unto an eternal ice age.
In hopes of proving that this determination was erroneous, we scrutinized our research from all angles, even as we sought to avert the everlasting winter.
The endeavor proved fruitless. So infamously so, in fact, that it became synonymous with vain effort.
The universe as we know it would end, and there is no way to prevent it.
Beneath the weight of this knowledge, our society stagnated. Though we had time still, it was a “cold” comfort.
Why strive for anything when desolation is assured? When our wealth of wisdom, accumulated since the dawning of our kind, would be forever lost?
No civilization would rise from our ashes. No scholar recover our knowledge. In silence unbroken, naught would stir.
Intellect was once our pride. Overnight, it became our shame. Our works monuments to futility.
Immortality, our greatest invention, became a source of suffering. Rather than suffer on, many chose to unmake themselves by means of aetheric exsanguinaters.
Etched upon these stones are the testaments of such souls. Though many left no words at all, thinking it a pointless gesture.
Once we have obtained vessels of flesh, we likewise intend to vanish.
If you understand this─understand aught of our tale─you will abandon your quest for knowledge.
Ignorance truly is bliss. If you would cling to your illusory happiness, remain primitive and pure. It is the only way.
So that's your story.
While I appreciate your advice, I will not heed it.
Convinced though you may be of this truth, it is yours and not mine. Indeed truth, I have ever believed, is in the eye of the beholder.
Are you suggesting that we have reached a faulty conclusion? That our science failed us?
Hardly. As you yourself said, the subject matter is beyond my comprehension.
And that, I accept, is true. I do not possess the knowledge to prove or disprove your conclusion.
In my mortal years, I doubt I could even approach the wisdom of the Ea.
But of one thing am I absolutely certain: I would not be happier in ignorance.
Y'shtola, no! You mustn't!
The most important lesson I've learned...is that learning isn't simply passing one's eyes over words.
Nay... 'Tis when understood for oneself that knowledge attains its true value.
This is what has sustained me. Driven me onward in joy and wonder. In anger and sorrow.
The universe may end, and all may be for naught. But I will live as I always have.
I will always seek out new knowledge. And no conclusion of yours, no matter how grim, can dampen my desire.
I suppose it is only to be expected. Their feeble minds cannot fathom the terrifying gravity of it all.
But worry not. We consider it our duty to enlighten you, and we will not stop until you grasp the full extent of our despair!
Keep calm, and listen well.
Though my body will soon dissipate, there may be a way to restore it.
Azem's magick. So long as our souls remain, you can use it to summon us back.
But you mustn't, for it would mean losing our way forward. This, I only reveal so that you can promise not to invoke the magick.
We came here knowing what victory may cost, so press on. Press on, and do not look back.
I shall join thee. As subterfuge is not required, thou shalt not suffer for mine absence.
Urianger...
My resolve hath never been as strong as thine. Full oft have I wavered in my decisions, and afterwards been stricken with regret.
In spite of this, I may still stand with my comrades, supporting them as they attempt the greatest of feats.
This truth, I have learned in the course of our journey.
And many though my shortcomings may be, I may also claim to excel in prophecies. My studies into which have granted me the flexibility of mind needed to bend this malleable reality.
Thus shall I hope... That thou mayest have the strength to resist, and our comrades the strength to continue.
With you to urge us on, how could we possibly fail?
What's this? An extinguished civilization...rekindled?
That's right! Our quest doesn't end here. We'll press on...and we will find you!
There. That's where you'll find me.
Is that...another star?
Of the stars we visited, most were already devoid of life. And where there was life still, the inhabitants wished for death.
But even death, we learned, isn't truly the end. It is but a part of the cycle of rebirth.
Souls return to the star─or in its absence, a larger flow. And eventually they are reborn.
Alive again, to know suffering anew...
True salvation lies not in dying. It lies in not being born.
This is the gift I would give to you. To all life on beautiful Etheirys.
To that end, we created an egg wherein life cannot quicken─that dead sun.
Attain it if you can. Before your friends' emotions fade away─along with their protection.
...I'm fine, Forename.
Like I said, our quest doesn't end here.
Never have I felt such emptiness. It's as if a part of me is gone...
Are you all ready to continue on?
Then let us make for where that light shone. Y'shtola and Urianger have opened the way for us.
Judging by the direction, this should be the place.
Some manner of Ea device. If our friends awakened it, then it should be safe to use.
Yes, I can feel it! The aether emanating from the arcane pattern!
This is a portal, and no mistake. Let us see where it leads.
What manner of place awaits us, I wonder...
