F-Forgive me my boldness, but you are Forename Surname, are you not?
My apologies! Even if you are the spitting image, I suppose it was naive of me to presume that you are indeed the living legend herself. I shall have to keep searching...
Th-Then my search is at an end. A begoggled gentleman tasked me to find you, you see, in hopes of entreating your aid with...some matter he deigned not share with me.
Pray remain here, and I shall fetch him at once!
Greetings, champion.
'Tis I who employed the young adventurer to facilitate this impromptu audience.
As for the why, I've a request that you─and you alone─can fulfill.
Pray listen well, for my tale begins with a most unsettling dream...
In it did I behold the evening sky, boundless and shimmering. As I drank deep of its beauty, I spied two stars sailing across the inky expanse─one of purest white, the other blushing scarlet, their courses set such that they might pass without collision.
Sharply and suddenly, the scarlet star shifted its trajectory. High above a burning landscape did its path intersect with that of the white star, their conjunction marked by a brilliant explosion of light. Even in slumber, I was awestruck by the spectacle.
Truth be told, mine own interpretation wavers. My rational mind says “meaningless dream,” whilst my artist's soul insists on “prophecy.”
I do not wish to make any claims with certainty. And yet...
Whatever greater meaning this vision might hold, I am convinced that the blazing white star represents the Warrior of Light. In other words, you.
And should these portents indeed foretell future events, you are thus fated to encounter the scarlet star─whomsoever they may be.
I therefore humbly request that you accompany me to the “burning land” from my dream, that I might witness the vision's denouement. I will compensate you for the trouble, of course.
The question is, which territory in Eorzea might be considered “burning,” metaphorically or otherwise...?
While its relation to flame cannot be denied, mine instincts tell me nay. The scene from my dream was more ridge than bowl─a giant, flickering outcrop of...crystal, mayhap? Of course!
Ah, that cluster of immense crystals born of the Seventh Umbral Calamity. Aye, it well resembles the sweeping scene from my dream.
These crystals would have to be immense in size, akin to...to those which comprise the Burning Wall. Aye, that site well resembles the sweeping scene from my dream.
The first mystery is solved. We shall leave for eastern Thanalan and the infamous Burning Wall at once!
The Burning Wall... An apt name indeed.
'Tis said that these crystalline structures were formed when falling shards of Dalamud pierced the land's aetherial current.
Some see them as a symbol of rebirth─a manifestation of renewed life...
But that is neither here nor there. Let's have a look around, shall we? Spyglasses at the ready!
A spyglass would be the most efficacious method of surveying our surrounds. Pray alert me to any unusual discoveries.
