Such a terrible mess. Yet it does leave the door wide open, so to speak.
One cannot help but be impressed. I'm beginning to understand the reliance you place on adventurers, old friend.
So...this is the legacy the Allagan Empire left behind.
If my readings are correct, the energy source waiting atop the tower is a match for even the Ultima Weapon. Nay...more than a match.
Heh heh heh... A new toy for me to play with.
I believed the fates had conspired to deny me my just rewards once again...but it would seem they had a greater destiny in mind for me.
And so long as my ambition burns, I shall strive to seize it. The dream lives on, Cid... Do not disappoint me!
Truly, there is no rest for the weary. Scarce had I begun to make myself at home when I received a request for assistance from Amajina & Sons Mineral Concern.
It would appear their storehouse in Horizon has been the target of a series of covert robberies.
Minor as they seemed in isolation, occasional discrepancies in the manifests were long dismissed as clerical errors. It was only during the Concern's annual audit that a pattern became apparent...
Significant quantities of crystals─and only crystals─were missing.
I need hardly tell you what that may imply.
The Brass Blades charged with investigating the thefts believe that someone within the Concern is selling the crystals for profit. Alas, they have as yet been unable to identify a likely suspect, and the Concern's proprietors have grown frustrated by their lack of progress.
Needless to say, I would not have agreed to intervene had the stolen goods been of merely monetary value. If there is even a possibility that the thief acts not out of self-interest but in service to a primal, we can ill afford to wait for the Blades to realize their mistake.
Pray depart for Horizon at your earliest convenience.
Rendezvous with Y'shtola when you arrive. She and Thancred have already begun a preliminary investigation.
I have every confidence that the three of you will get to the bottom of these thefts. I only hope our fears prove unfounded when you do.
Ah, Forename. Your assistance is most welcome.
I have already spoken at length with the Brass Blades of the Rose─albeit to little avail. It would seem that the thieves took great pains to conceal their activities.
I could go into further detail, but your time might better be spent in conversation with Fufulupa. He is the officer charged with leading the investigation, and I would only be repeating that which he related to me. If aught eluded my attention, mayhap it will not elude yours.
Oh, hello there! Forename, was it? Y'shtola said to expect you.
Terrible business, these thefts. We have yet to confirm the quantity of crystals stolen, but I daresay it may be greater than─
Ah, but never mind that! I have news to share! A short while ago, the driver of a heavily laden carriage refused to halt for inspection and broke through one of our checkpoints on the Royal Allagan Sunway.
The cart bolted off toward eastern Thanalan, where─thank the gods─I hear that our colleagues were able to apprehend them without further incident.
...A speeding carriage? That would seem a curious choice for thieves of such proven cunning. Yet the Amalj'aa do have a foothold in eastern Thanalan. Hmmm.
And what of their cargo? Did they carry the crystals we seek?
We should be receiving a report any moment now, but I fail to see what else it could─
Did you miss me, friends? I'm back, but I fear I come bearing disappointing news. Or, on second thought, perhaps it's good news, after all...
...Thancred. Wherever have you been off to?
I figured you had everything under control here, so I just took a brief excursion to the east to check up on our Amalj'aa friends.
And wouldn't you believe it? I happened upon a runaway carriage on the way, and even was able to do my small part to help my friends in the Brass Blades intercept it.
In all my years, I have never seen such a prodigious quantity of somnus. The Blades were calling it one of the greatest hauls they've ever seen. The stolen crystals, on the other hand, were nowhere to be found.
Is that so? Alas...I suppose we have no choice but to resume our search elsewhere.
We should reassess our options as well. Come with us, Forename.
...And so we find ourselves back where we began. <sigh> What have I overlooked...?
Against all expectation, it would seem the Amalj'aa are innocent of this particular spate of crimes. By all indications, they have yet to replenish the stores of crystals exhausted during their last attempt to summon Ifrit.
What I can't fathom is why anyone else would go to such lengths to obtain crystals─and in such quantities.
It cannot be that we are dealing with simple thieves. If their motive were profit, why would they limit their trade to crystals alone...? Plainly, we are missing something.
While you think about what it might be, I shall inform Urianger of our progress─or lack thereof.
Now then...
'Tis I. The situation may be more complicated than we anticipated.
Indeed. I shall remain watchful.
Ere thou goest─another matter requireth thine attention. A young maiden, full eager to─
Wherefore inquirest thou of her fairness!? Very well. Be she damsel or devil, I shall direct her steps to Revenant's Toll.
...Save thine insinuations for one given to such impropriety. Thou shalt not find me amenable.
