Ghrrr!? What's happening!? Why am I being patted!? It's...it's wonderful...
Seldom do we have the chance to enjoy the attentions of men. Your kind are loath to come here for fear of the fae folk.
...But then we are fae folk too. When first we made our home here, we swore an oath to the faerie king, you see. 'Tis easy to forget sometimes.
Thou hast peered into the hearts of the amaro, I take it?
Then thou canst not choose but see the intense and abiding love they bear for men. It is out of concern for our welfare, and not scorn, that Seto seeketh to dissuade us from confronting their king.
Yet confront their king we must, and to that end we must needs have the crystal shoes...
Forename─might I prevail upon thee to confer with Seto in private?
The task of slaying the Lightwarden will ultimately be thine, and it is for thee, I believe, that he worrieth most.
Tell him of thy many great deeds. Spoken in earnest, thy words may yet move him to change his mind.
You have spoken with my brethren.
Then you see it is not out of scorn that I deny you the relic...
I simply cannot bear to see men fight and die. Not anymore. None of us can. To lose one who has placed a gentle hand on us even once fills our hearts with untold sorrow, as my brothers and sisters will readily attest.
<sigh> What am I to make of such declarations?
Tell me, why do you wish this?
This land is no longer man's to fight for, nor will your doing so compel the fae folk to change. And in order to obtain the other relics, you will already have paid the due price. Naught more is owed.
Why then would you risk all to face our fallen king?
What...did you say...?
The very words... Could it be mere coincidence?
Very well. You may believe what you say, but we shall see if you have the strength to do it.
Sin eaters have been prowling the area of late. Prove yourself against them, and I will consider giving you the relic.
See that you are well prepared, then meet me in the clearing to the east.
There, I will lure out the fiends, that you may slay them.
I will use my voice to lure out the sin eaters, as I once did when I hunted with an old friend.
A feeble cry for the ravenous; a mighty roar for the territorial... I still remember the tricks.
But come. We begin at your signal.
Ready, then? Very well.
You made short work of those creatures, I will not deny it...
I have seen enough. Let us return to Wolekdorf.
By the ease with which you slew those sin eaters, I see that you are capable.
However, I still require time to think. And if you should be willing, there is a favor I would ask of you.
This is not a test of your strength, but a personal request. Please hear my tale.
A while ago, I fought sin eaters who had wandered into Il Mheg. In the heat of battle, I dropped a prized possession─a medallion. Of all the places that it should fall, it was Longmirror Lake.
We amaro are not fond of water─we certainly cannot dive very deep. I briefly entertained the thought of turning to the Fuath, but they are more likely to keep my medallion out of mischief than return it to me.
I had despaired of retrieving my treasure, but having seen what you are capable of, perhaps you will be able to find it.
While I ponder your request for the shoes, will you not go and search for my medallion? If it should elude even you, I will accept that it is gone forever.
Ah, you are returned.
How fared your search?
Ah! My medallion! You found it!
Oh, I know not how to thank you. It is my most treasured possession─a gift from a dear, departed soul.
He was a traveler, and together we journeyed to the ends of the world and back again. When I was young.
In those days, I could not speak, but we found joy in each other's company nonetheless. Oh, the memories...
This medallion he found during an adventure─fashioned it into a necklace for me, his “partner in crime.”
I had not the words to tell him then, but it filled my heart with pride. I was so, so happy...
His name was Ardbert, and he was my friend.
Ardbert, thou sayest...?
Everyone blamed him for the Flood. Him and his comrades.
Some few spoke up for them─of the many whose lives they had touched.
But as the years went by, their voices were drowned out by those who only uttered the adventurers' names as a curse...
It was too much to bear. And so I left behind men and their lies and came to this place.
Ardbert was a trusting soul, constantly being drawn into the troubles of others. Yet in spite of this, he never thought twice when he saw someone in need. He always tried to help.
It was no different then. The world needed heroes─it needed him. And yet...
He was a good man. He deserved to be happy. I wish I could have told him that, at least...
You remind me of him. Your kindness...
You remind me of him. Your kindness...
When we amaro were created, we were granted the ability to perceive souls. Thus did we recognize our masters.
That ability has long since faded from our kind. But due perhaps to my reversion, I can see your soul. Faintly but surely.
It is reminiscent of Ardbert's. Strikingly so.
Of course, you are you, and no one else. We are defined not by the soul we are born with, but the path we walk.
Nevertheless...I cannot help but feel that this is more than mere coincidence...
...Which is why I will place my faith in you. The relic─it is yours.
There's trouble! Terrible trouble!
Has something happened at Lydha Lran?
Together with the twins, we were playing tricks on some nasty mortals to stop them from setting foot in Il Mheg.
At first they ran off screaming, which was lots of fun!
But then a scary, bony, wrinkly old mortal came along and spoiled everything! None of our tricks seem to work on him, which is no fun at all, and now they're getting closer and closer...
Ran'jit. If he manages to find his way in, all our efforts will have been for naught.
As thou sayest. Should we be discovered ere our mission here is complete, and the Lightwarden yet liveth, our task will be rendered nigh impossible.
If we are to prevail, we must needs divide our forces. Thus do I propose the following...
Whilst thou salliest forth to meet with the Lightwarden, we shall join in the effort to obstruct the trespassers.
Should we succeed in staying their advance, all the better. Yet even should we fail, if we can but delay our enemy's arrival long enough for thee to secure victory, our plan may still be deemed a success.
So the moment the lights go out, we all beat a hasty retreat, yes?
Let me come with you! I have the blessing too!
No, Minfilia. You'll only get underfoot. Now, come.
I wish there were more I could do. Please be careful...
Forgive me, it seems my indecision has cost you precious time.
But I am convinced now. Convinced that you will triumph.
To the south you will find the bridge to Lyhe Ghiah. As the bearer of the four relics, the gate to the castle will open to you.
The gate has recognized that you bear all four relics. The seal is broken.
All that remains is to enter the castle and confront Titania─a being bereft of reason and mercy.
It is sure to be a ferocious battle. But if anyone can bring an end to our king's torment, it is you.
Yet know this, my adorable sapling: though we fae folk may appear to live unfettered lives, there are still laws that bind us.
To take back as much as is taken. To create as much as is destroyed. To give as much as is received.
In all things, balance must be preserved...and the same will be asked of you.
But worry not. Come what may, your beautiful branch will ever be at your side.
Come and play! For the night is bright, and you can sleep when you're dead!
Can you guess which one?
Wet, wet, wet!
When you play with fire...
We're sick of this cramped old castle! Let's play in the forest!
Twist and sprout!
Squish, squash! A crimson flower!
The more the merrier! Join us, my children!
Grow, my lovelies! Grow!
Bigger is better!
Dance like the leaves on the boughs!
This is so much fun! Let's play some more!
Owww, that hurts! You play rough!
We can play...no more...
You have freed our fallen king. Not that I expected any less, my [adorable sapling].
The dress, the crown, the scepter, the shoes─the time has come for these relics to serve their true purpose.
For they are not only keys to the castle; they are also blessings to be bestowed upon the new king.
The way into the castle is opened when it is time to relieve the reigning monarch of the throne. And the brave soul who does the deed has the honor of taking their place.
However...should you ascend the throne, you will become one of us, never again to live as men do.
My adorable sapling. My precious mortal.
We fae folk live forever, but such is not your virtue.
To strive for a dream you will never see─to sow seeds that others might one day taste the fruits of your garden─that is the beauty of your kind.
Burn bright and shine as only you can. These blessings, your lovely branch will accept in your stead.
[Rejoice and revel, for the Kingdom of Rainbows is forever young.]
Now, shall we attend to those unwise enough to trespass in our realm?
Confound it! How did they get here so fast...?
