Ready!
Esteemed colleagues! The secrets of ancient Allag beckon!
Let's not keep them waiting any longer! Adventurer─you and I will join the engineers at the Crystal Tower's main gateway, where we will endeavor to neutralize the structure's outer defenses.
Rammbroes, meanwhile, will remain here and oversee the operation. Given my knowledge of Allagan history, it seems logical that I should lead the expedition itself...though I admit the role does not exactly befit my status as an observer.
Still, we can but make use of the resources at hand. Assuming all are in agreement, let us proceed forthwith to the large, lopsided gate found to the southeast.
The Crystal Tower lies beyond this portal. Now comes the interesting part...
Cid, you are the only one of our number who has ever crossed this threshold. I ask that you take the lead for the present.
I say... The energy radiating from these statues is...palpable.
Lucky for us that it is. One might otherwise stroll past them... Feast your eyes on the elemental defenses which prompted our lengthy preparations. These sentinels prevent would-be intruders from advancing to within twenty yalms of the tower's inner reaches.
...No matter how swift they may be.
Happily, the crystal fangs we took such pains to craft should spare us the inconvenience of instantaneous annihilation. Here, allow me to demonstrate.
Ch-Chief!? It's too─
Dangerous to allow anyone else to risk his life testing one? Quite right. I made the damn things─it's my job to see that they work.
...Success!
I for one am convinced! Friends─ready your fangs!
This last one is yours, old friend. It seemed only right...
Haha! We did it! So much for the outer defenses!
Indeed. The entrance to the tower is near at hand. My blood fairly sings with anticipation!
Speaking of blood─I have a proposal for the next stage of the expedition.
I suggest we wait here while Forename and a handpicked party of her adventuring companions enter the tower.
What!? Without us? I thought we came here to survey the entire structure!
We did─and we will. But our investigations must proceed at a more measured pace.
If the outside of the place is this well defended, can you imagine what awaits us on the inside? Only a true hero could reasonably hope to brave the hazards ahead and live to tell the tale.
Forename here fits that description better than anyone I know.
And it is not as if we shall be idle in her absence. While Forename and her companions are risking life and limb to beat us a path to the tower, we can set about analyzing this rubble for evidence of how its technologies function.
Your knowledge of ancient lore will be invaluable in that endeavor, Historian G'raha Tia.
Bah! Do you ever tire of being right, old man!?
Ahem. Forename─as it seems I won't be accompanying you, allow me at least to provide some instruction. The maze that surrounds the base of the tower is known as the “Labyrinth of the Ancients.” During this initial foray, I suggest you concentrate on ridding the place of hostile elements.
When you are reasonably certain the maze is secure, contact me via linkshell and we shall join you posthaste─no matter what Master Garlond says!
Though we would prefer it if any relics you encounter remained intact, you have leave to do whatever is necessary to secure ingress to the upper levels of the tower. Fortune go with you, Forename.
