Can I help you? Ah, I suppose word has gotten around about this little fellow. I would be delighted to tell you about him, truly, but I'm afraid I'm preoccupied at the moment. I'm waiting for someone who is unreasonably late.
Wait...now that I think about it, you're an adventurer, aren't you? Alternatively, I may have a proposition for you.
If you help me out, I will tell you more about my feline friend here. Do you accept?
Well, you can't blame me for trying. Good day to you, then.
And the deal is struck. Allow me to introduce myself.
I am a tradesman come from far beyond the borders of Eorzea. Though I am a slave to wanderlust, I occasionally return to my homeland where I manage a sizable company that deals in eccentric commodities. Thus the locals called me “the wandering executive,” and I wear the title with pride.
I am often accompanied by an erudite traveling companion, but he appears to have gotten quite lost on this journey. We were strolling in the twilight of the Black Shroud when he grew excited and scampered off to do some sightseeing of his own.
He was aware I had some affairs to take care of here, so I thought to let him enjoy himself while I finished with my tasks and stayed in one spot. But he hasn't shown up in hours. Perhaps you could ask around Bentbranch for me and find out what's keeping him?
Oh, I almost forgot to mention. My friend is not of my tribe. He's a rotund little soul, white as snow and floats through the air like a cloud...except if clouds could speak I would hope they wouldn't be as long-winded as he.
You ask my real name? My apologies, but you must understand I cannot reveal that so readily to someone I barely know in a strange land. If you'll help me by finding my friend, perhaps I will tell it to you.
Round, white, and floats through the air? Are you sure it's a person?
'Cause I'd say you're searchin' for one o' them moogles. In any case, you'd be out of luck since they only appear when they want to be seen.
I wish I could meet 'em, too! Chocobo chicks have lots of feathered fluff, but I bet nothin' could compare with cuddlin' a moogle.
That sounds like a moogle, sure enough. Quiet as a mouse when they're hiding, but once they reveal themselves they never stop chattering. The one I saw a few nights ago was hundreds of yalms away and I could still hear his voice.
I was peering off into the distance between the boughs of the trees, when I sighted a well-dressed Au Ra traveler, with fiery violet hair and a moogle flying beside him. It was a strange sight if I do say so myself.
Granted, I never saw a moogle myself before this instance, but it most assuredly was one.
