Nice shootin'! Keep it up in the actual trial, eh?
Aye, that's the way!
Next time, it's the trial for true. Let me know when you're ready, eh?
Ready for the trial? Right this way, then!
This time, there'll be them as wear the right helm. You shoot them, you fail, so look carefully afore you let the stone fly!
This time, there'll be them as wear the right helm. You shoot them, you fail, so look carefully afore you let the stone fly!
If you're entertaining the thought of knocking off my cowl, know that it will not work.
Gahaha! You weren't supposed to hit me!
Well done! A fine show of discernment and dexterity!
Well done, well done! The trial never lies─you've got what it takes to be a miner!
Run along back to the chief, now, and get on with puttin' an end to all this strangeness of late!
That was some impressive shooting, lass! Consider me satisfied!
Aye, 'tis plain you didn't come this far with luck alone. So I'll place my faith in you, and help you find the ore you seek.
Did you know that Kholusia's rich in sulphur? Well, it is. We've been minin' the stuff since ancient times.
And every so often, the selfsame veins yield what's called earthseed, a rare ore steeped in magick.
Time was, we used to refine earthseed for this and that, but the technique's been lost. The stuff's still out there to be had, though, provided you know where to look. And no place is surer'n the Duergar's Tewel.
Problem is, the site's occupied by our age-old rivals─the Goggs. Greedy sods claim the place is theirs, and refuse to let any other bugger near!
Oh, there never was a more odious lot than them Goggs. I could go on forever about those hornless whoresons... But then we'd be here forever, and that won't get us nowhere.
What it boils down to is this: if you want the earthseed, you've got to deal with the Goggs. Reckon you're up to the challenge?
We have dealt with far worse. I am sure we can find a way to obtain what we need.
That's the spirit! Now, to help you find your way, I'll have one of ours go with you.
