If it's any consolation, this is all rather confusing to us as well.
Erenville's mother is a floating machine. Right─that makes about as much sense as everything else thus far.
At this point, I doubt anything could possibly surprise me.
I can't say I understand what's going on, but at least Cahciua is safe.
The Allagans had machines that could be controlled remotely. Is she using something similar to communicate with us?
As far as I can tell, this is indeed my mother. I can think of few people in the world quite so spirited...
But as to what's happened, we'll need to ask her...
<sigh> Let's hear what she has to say.
It's so wonderful to meet you all.
And the Students of Baldesion... It's been a while since I heard that name.
Dare I ask the reason for your appearance?
Oh, this? It's just a body that I control remotely. I use this for our operations.
We're members of a resistance organization─Oblivion, we call ourselves, and our goal is to thwart Zoraal Ja's ambitions for conquest.
As the leader, it's prudent that I remain where I can't be easily found.
I see. Whimsical appearances notwithstanding, yours is a serious cause.
Right you are. Though truth be told, Oblivion was founded for an altogether different purpose.
And that is?
As I expect you've already noticed, everything you see within this dome─the buildings, the people, the very earth beneath our feet─is a fusion of two worlds.
Stopping such a fusion was Oblivion's original mission.
Then does that mean you know who or what is responsible for it?
I'm afraid not. This was a long time ago, and our mission statement has become more of a legend that's passed down to members. By the time we joined, our sole objective was stopping Zoraal Ja.
But we failed to do that. And now he's taken his army outside the dome...
None of you wear those strange devices on your heads. Does that have something to do with your work?
You mean this?
It's a regulator, the pinnacle of electrope technology. And that we don't wear it is indeed related to our operations.
What exactly does it do?
Allow me to explain.
Regulators have two primary functions.
The first, as the name suggests, is the regulation of the wearer's reserve of souls. Should they die, the regulator expends a soul to bring them back to life.
“Reserve”? You mean people walk around carrying spare souls!?
They do. Souls are packaged in cells, and they can be used to replenish the life force that is lost due to sudden death, such as in accidents. They do nothing for those who die of old age, though.
Distribution of soul cells is based on one's work evaluation. To encourage “exemplary performance” when fulfilling their duties.
Souls as a common resource...and payment for services rendered...
The voidsent practice of consuming others for their aether comes to mind. And similarly, I expect that the act comes with some risk.
That is prevented through memory management, a process in which regulators also play a role.
Memory management? Then the reason everyone has forgotten Namikka's existence...
The regulators are constantly recording the memories of their wearer, so if they should suddenly die, their memories can be refreshed as part of the restoration process.
This is how they preserve one's identity and sense of self. However, the regulators are also triggered when someone else dies.
Reason being is that regulators forcibly extract memories relating to the deceased from anyone wearing one.
Why would they do such a thing?
It's a “kindness” bestowed upon the people by Everkeep's core system, so that no one has to suffer the pain of loss.
So this is what is meant by their memories being in the cloud.
Indeed. All memories of the deceased are wiped from the minds of the people and archived in the system.
It's a frightening function of the regulators─and an integral step in soul cell production.
You see, when a person dies of natural causes, their soul is temporarily housed within the regulator.
It's then delivered to a facility where memories are separated from the soul.
The result is a fresh soul cell, free of impurities, ready for distribution and consumption.
Meanwhile, the memories are stored in the core system. To be “remembered” forever.
And this is why people are happy here? On its surface, it's similar to the Yok Huy philosophy, but I see nothing noble or comforting in it...
Well, it doesn't seem so terrible to me personally. All comes down to what you're used to, I suppose.
Like the barrier encasing Alexandria, this system was created to overcome the calamity that transformed the world hundreds of years ago.
Amidst the mounting death toll, scientists used electrope to devise a means to save what lives they could so that the nation could endure.
I understand the people of Alexandria did what they believed was best to save their people. I just find it hard to believe the Turali would also accept this way of living.
It came as a shock to us as well. In fact, a great many were opposed to it.
Which is why the use of regulators was never compulsory. The people have always been free to go without them if they so wish.
Sphene didn't strike me as the sort of ruler to impose her will on others.
Ah, so you've already met?
She's the one who suggested we come to the Thunderyards in the first place. She also said she wants to help us stop Zoraal Ja.
Awfully kind of her to point you in my direction. And to speak so candidly as well...
Whatever her motives, she has given the people a choice: live with the risk of true death, or the security of the regulators.
Everything that lives must someday die. That is the natural order of things.
Quite right... But however you feel about them, it would be easier to understand what the regulators are capable of if you saw it for yourself.
I know just the person to show you, and as luck would have it, they should be starting work right about now.
Who are we going to see, exactly?
Come with me and you'll find out.
Take care not to get struck by lightning out there. One fellow reckoned you could dodge them by jumping back the instant there's a flash, but that's crazy if you ask me.
Firearms make the most sense for people who don't have combat training like us.
That's why we salvage as many as we can from the mechanical soldiers, and convert them for our use.
Nostalgia is my twin sister. Like most people, we both used to wear regulators, but... Well, let's just say a lot happened...
What does she intend to show us?
We're to see how the regulators work, but how?
So those regulators are to blame for everyone forgetting Namikka. For forgetting what a wonderful person she was...
To alter the memories of the populace with such precision is no small feat.
I'm sorry, but I just can't accept the idea of using souls as a resource.
Everyone here? Good.
It is the responsibility of the Thunderyard's hunters to fell any fiends found wandering the area.
We're to meet an acquaintance of mine, Strika, one of these hunters.
What do you think is in this box? I'm guessing food.
Judging by its name, I take it this facility is for gathering lightning energy.
Given the opportunity, I should very much like to study electrope on behalf of the Students.
While I am not blind to the potential benefits of these regulators, the risks inherent in giving another party the power to alter your memories cannot be overstated─never mind the ethical considerations of using souls in such a fashion.
Let's get this over with.
Strika will show you what life can be like wearing a regulator.
