Well met, friends. I'm Nourval, a humble citizen of Gridania, and I see you received my letter.
We've come as you bid. The tome, if you would be so kind.
Ah, but I never said that I had it. And to be clear, I do not.
What? Then why did you summon us here?
Patience, my friends. I will explain. You see, like many Gridanians, I have an ancestor who fought in the Autumn War. 'Twas he who first learned of the tome in question, after the fighting had ended.
In turn, I learned of it from my parents, and since then I've dreamed of poring over its pages. Alas, as it lies deep within Ala Mhigan territory, I was resigned never to have the chance.
But then the brave soldiers of the Alliance took Baelsar's Wall, and the way was made clear. When I heard the tidings, the flames of my boyhood passion were rekindled. Finally, I can fulfill my dream!
...Or so I told myself, before I thought better of it. I'm no soldier, you see, and the prospect of wandering a war-ravaged land in search of a tome is, frankly, unrealistic. That's why I decided to reach out to your order for cooperation.
Based on my parents' account, I'm confident that I can track down the tome. And I will help you to find it. I ask only that you take me with you.
...So what say you? I'm but a commoner and know little of the ways of nations, but it seems to me such secrets as the tome conceals could be harmful to diplomatic relations. Is this not so?
So if we wish to find the tome, we must agree to your company. Quite a demand to make of your nation.
Heh, you've got stones, that's for sure. I like it!
Are you serious? A civilian is essentially holding us to ransom, and you praise him for his stones?
Look at it this way: we didn't know the tome existed, nor have we the faintest where to look for it. Better to have help than to fumble about blind, I reckon. Come on, Forename, back me up here.
I suppose you have the right of it. Whether we like it or not, we would struggle without Nourval's knowledge.
You, too, Forename? Are appearances truly that important to a bard? <sigh> Setting aside this talk of stones for a moment, I'll not deny that we would struggle without Nourval's knowledge.
Very well, we agree to your terms. And here is ours: you must obey our orders at all times.
To the letter, sir! You shan't regret bringing me on!
First, we will make for Castrum Oriens, presently held by the Order of the Twin Adder. Thence we shall make our way into the unknown.
The armies of the four nations, united under one banner and one purpose. A sight to stir the spirit!
Well? Where to now?
Pray do not be hasty, Master Sanson. Before we venture into the wilds of Gyr Abania, we would do well to acquaint ourselves with the lay of the land.
As a serpent captain, it should be a simple matter for you to secure permission for us to remain here. Just long enough to get our bearings.
Hmmm, I suppose it would only be prudent...
Very well, I will request permission of command.
And I'll get right to bonding with the locals! Always wanted to compare songs from the four nations...and the liquor besides, hehehe!
Master Guydelot is quite a character, isn't he?
Aye, that he is. Pay him no mind. Now then, I will make my own inquiries. In the meantime, you are to lay low and refrain from bothering the garrison. Understood?
Forename, Guydelot and I shall tend to business here. Pray take your ease until we are ready to depart.
Gah! I can't believe I'm saying this, but Nourval might be an even bigger pain than Guydelot!
Despite my express instructions to keep out of the garrison's way, what does he do but go and bother every single soldier about? And now everyone here looks at us askance!
<sigh> I brought a tome to record mission details, but instead I'm filling it with the names of those to whom I must apologize...
I'm sorry if I've caused trouble, but it's simply more efficient that I make the inquiries myself. What a man says amounts to only half the story; how he says it gives you the rest.
Besides, I felt compelled to make up for Master Guydelot. All he seemed to be doing was drinking and singing.
Well, appearances can be deceiving with him. He has his own way of acquiring information. Speaking of which, I am curious as to what he has learned.
Forename, might I ask you to look around the castrum for him? I will keep a close eye on Nourval in the meantime.
Sanson wants to know what I know, does he? Well, might be as I've learned a thing or two, but I ain't ready to share 'em yet.
Still need to clear up some details, see, and I'm not one for unfinished tales. It ain't bardly, as I'm sure you can appreciate.
Seeing as you're here, though, there is something I could use a hand with.
Of late, masked bandits have been terrorizing the area. Not even Alliance soldiers are safe, it seems. The brazen bastards set on a patrol just the other day.
And now, a Twin Adder scout's late to return, and chances are the bandits are at it again. I want you to go and check things out.
I'd go myself, but I need to keep an eye on our friend Nourval. He's been acting queer since we got here.
There'll be more to tell later, but for now you'd best be on your way. The soldier was bound for Schism, the ruins to the northeast of here.
Th-Thank you... They fell upon me with nary a warning.
They knew I was coming. We alter our patrol routes on a regular basis, but they knew. What's more, it was as though they were barring my way.
But now is not the time for speculation. I must take word of this back to my superiors. My thanks again, friend.
There you are, Forename. So, what happened? Was it the bandits after all?
Masked bandits in the area, and you had an encounter with them!? Thank the Matron you did not come to harm!
Guydelot, why did you not see fit to share this with us?
Aye, well, I knew it was nothing Forename couldn't handle alone. Besides, I had some business of my own, someone to keep an eye on.
...I cannot imagine who that might be. Master Guydelot─I owe you an apology. I had assumed in err that you were not doing your work. Unorthodox though your methods may be, there is no doubting their efficacy.
Ain't no trick to what I do. Everyone's got a song what's close to their hearts, and with a bit of camaraderie in the cups, they'll tell you what it is. Then I strum 'em their song over a heart-to-heart, is all.
Thanks to Guydelot, we were able to learn of the recent incidents. So I ask you, will you not have a little faith in us?
I'm not certain I understand.
Look, Nourval. We've made a stop here at your request, that we might gather information for our search. But not once did you tell us what it is we should look for.
By now we have more than a solid grasp of the region beyond. What should we do next?
Oh my, did I neglect to tell you? My profoundest apologies. The tome we seek─it's said to rest in a place connected to Gylbarde, the general who led the Ala Mhigan forces during the Autumn War.
Now that you mention it, the masked bandits appeared on the way to Schism. And Gylbarde was a known devotee of the Fist of Rhalgr. Just taking a wild stab here, but might be as they're also after the tome.
An unsettling notion. Should that be the case, we haven't any time to waste. I will go and make some inquiries immediately.
W-Wait! I didn't give you perm─
Leave him. There's something you two need to know.
I got this from a soldier, but Nourval's been sneaking outside the castrum while our backs were turned.
Bastards's been acting right fishy since we got here, and he tensed up good when the subject of the masked bandits came up.
Whatever his true motives may be, we must bring them to light. Rather than reel him in, let us give him some line to act.
There is no telling what Nourval will do next. While we keep watch, please see that you are ready to deal with anything.
We've continued our surveillance of Nourval's activities. It's beyond a shadow of a doubt that he has an ulterior motive.
In order to find the tome, it's past time we took our search to the field, but always he finds an excuse to stall.
Whenever I suggest investigating this ruin or that, he will inevitably claim we haven't enough information. 'Tis plain he doesn't want us out there.
Nay, bastard wants all that outside goodness for himself. But try as we might, we haven't been able to find out where he sneaks off to. Warier than a bird, that one.
Meanwhile, the masked bandits continue ambushing Alliance patrols, and they always know exactly where and when to strike. It's as though they have insider knowledge of patrol routes.
The only explanation being there's a mole in the garrison leaking them intelligence.
And who could that mole be save for Nourval? Every move of his marks him as the prime suspect.
We know little and less of Nourval's plot, but it can only lead to ill. We must needs bring it to light, and swiftly, before he can do any more harm.
To that end, Guydelot and I have been keeping Nourval close, allowing him no chance to act. By now he will be positively itching to rendezvous with his accomplices.
And this is where you come in, Forename. We need you to feed Nourval some false information─that I am in an Alliance meeting, and Guydelot...a drunken stupor.
Our man will not pass up the chance to sneak out, and he is like to do so with greater haste than usual. This will afford us an opening to shadow him to his destination.
...Drunken stupor? Really?
Not so flattering, I know, but you cannot deny that it's believable.
Now then, Forename, pray go to Nourval and plant our misinformation. Once you have done so, come and meet us outside the castrum.
...Both of them unavailable? And there I was ready to strike out on the trail of a promising lead!
Well, disappointing though it is, the search will have to wait. Now, if you will excuse me, I have some business to attend to.
It worked, my friend! Nourval rushed out of the castrum not a moment ago!
He was headed east, towards a ruin called Gyr Kehim. Guydelot trails him even as we speak. Come, let us join the chase.
It's a good old-fashioned tryst. Let's have us a peek, shall we?
