The journal is yours to do with as you wish. But ere you take it away, I would speak with Forename, and Forename alone, one last time. I await you in Dimwold, by the Percipient One.
Oh, this reeks. Tell me it don't.
But if this is a trap, why would Nourval ask for the strongest of all of us? He may truly have something important to say.
Conversely, it would also offer us a chance to convey our intent. I am loath to expose you to danger, my friend, but will you go to this meeting?
I don't like the idea of you going alone, but that'd defeat the purpose of the meeting. At the first sign of danger, though, get out of there fast, alright?
Ah, you're back. But where's Sanson?
Another letter arrived right after you left, asked for him to come as well. You're really alone, then?
Swive me! You were just the diversion─Sanson was their real target!
I thought it'd be alright seeing as you'd be there, but I should've gone as well! Gods strike me down for a fool!
If you didn't see Sanson, they must've nabbed him on the way to Dimwold. Come on, we have to find him!
Sanson's book was lyin' here. They left a message in blood, the godsdamned mummers.
“We have your friend. We will send our price to the Adders' Nest.”...That whoreson can take his ransom and shove it up his arse! We're gonna storm their hideout, tear 'em all new ones, and free Sanson!
Dammit, Forename, how can you always be so calm? It's downright contagious. And you're right, of course. If we charge in, we'd be putting Sanson at risk.
Dammit, Forename, how can you always be so calm? It's downright contagious. And you're right, of course. We don't even know where the bastards've taken Sanson.
We need help if we're gonna save him. Come on, let's hurry back to Gridania, to the Adders' Nest.
I've just reported the situation. They're gonna call a meeting to talk strategy.
As for Gylbarde's journal...I'm still holding on to it. Told 'em it's for the chief to hand over. They were none too pleased, fancy that.
Y'see, unlike our friend Sanson, I don't have much faith in the order. Don't trust 'em to act in our best interests. The journal's our bargaining chip, not only with them but Nourval besides.
Would be good to bring old Jehantel into it as well. He'd want to know, and might even have some sage advice to share.
But for now, we sit tight─wait and see what the order and Nourval will do. And then we plan some doings of our own. Till then, rest up and save your strength, Forename. We're gonna need it.
Good timing, Forename. Nourval's demands've just arrived at the Adders' Nest.
In exchange for Sanson's freedom, we're to release the contents of Gylbarde's journal to the public. Bastard won't be satisfied until all Gridanians hate all Ala Mhigans' guts.
The brass hats're deliberating a course of action as we speak. Not much we can do now but wait.
