H-How did you─!? ...No matter! You'll not stand in my way!
So you want to do this the hard way, eh?
He leaves us no choice!
Have at them!
Damn! Was more o' them in the ruin!
I leave them to you and Forename!
Poisoned arrows!?
Hmph, pesky archers! Somebody deal with 'em!
Now! Fan out!
How many friends has he got!?
Not good...
The time for charades is past! I will show you the technique of my ancestors!
What is he─!?
Urgh! Wh-Whence comes this power!?
Damn... Bastard's full of surprises...
Hmph, perhaps you are not such blind fools after all. Very well, take your journal.
Aye, take it! Read it! Know the vile crime the Ala Mhigans committed against Lord Vainchelon─against my own blood! And see the folly of aiding such honorless people!
Wh-What do you mean, your own blood?
Did I mishear? Did he just say that Vainchelon was his ancestor?
Aye, that's what it sounded like. Vainchelon, the folk hero loved by all, celebrated in countless songs...and that pain in the rear's his descendant. Never would've guessed. Anyroad, we've got bigger concerns. Let's see what this musty old tome's hiding.
“To Vainchelon I extended an invitation to negotiate peace. The meeting must be in secret, I explained, for not all of my officers share my view. My opponent accepted and arrived at the appointed hour.”
Peace? Everybody knows there weren't no peace on offer. The hells' this about?
Wait, it continues: “Without suspicion, he took his seat. And without suspicion, he drank the poisoned wine. The effect was swift and sure, and within moments the man lay dead at my feet.”
Wait, Vainchelon was murdered? By poison!?
To this day, Lord Vainchelon remains an object of worship among many Gridanians. Were they to learn of this, the present grumblings against Ala Mhigan liberation are liable to grow into large-scale protests.
There's no denying that some Ala Mhigans did some terrible things in the past, but what Nourval's trying to do ain't no better. Might be as he's after the truth, but nothing good'll come of this, and certainly not any decent songs.
The truth... Tell me, Guydelot. When we surrender this journal to our superiors, what do you think they would do with the knowledge?
The Seedseers aside, I reckon the brass hats at the Adders' Nest would want to cover it up. Bury it nice and deep and pretend it never existed.
Aye... Nor would I put it past them to exploit the knowledge to gain leverage in dealings with Ala Mhigo. But whatever they may do is none of our concern, is it? Duty compels us to hand the journal over to headquarters...
You're the leader of our merry band, Sanson, and duty compels me to obey your orders, shite though they often are. You decide whether we hand over the journal or not.
Guydelot would entrust this decision to me. But what of you, Forename?
Yes, that would only be proper. As the leader, mine is the burden of decision.
No, forgive me this unseemly display. Guydelot has the right of it. As the leader, mine is the burden of decision.
At any rate, this ain't the place for moral dilemmas. Let's get ourselves back to the castrum afore Nourval and his mates decide they want to have another go.
Guydelot has disappeared somewhere in the castrum. Giving me room to ponder matters, I shouldn't doubt.
I've since read through Gylbarde's journal, and I'm afraid there is no two ways about it. He summoned Vainchelon under the pretense of peace, and then slew him with poison.
However, one mystery remains. It appears one of Vainchelon's sons was present at the fateful meeting.
Landrenel was his name, and he narrowly escaped with his life. But instead of crying bloody murder, he announced that his sire had died of illness.
Here is a man who witnessed his own flesh and blood slain, and in the most underhanded manner, yet he concealed the truth. Why did he do this? I do not understand...
But it avails us naught to agonize over the motives of those who lived in the past. Nay, our quandary concerns the future.
For the future of both nations, the truth is best kept buried. No good can come of digging it up. 'Tis crystal clear what must be done.
And yet, though my mind sees the logic, my heart rebels against the idea. Forgive me, Forename. It seems I require more time to think on it.
The instant we hand Gylbarde's journal to headquarters, the truth of Vainchelon's death is all but guaranteed to be struck from history...
I've thought long and hard on a course of action─what we should do with the tome─and I believe I'm drawing close to the answer.
Before I make my decision, however, I would ask your honest opinion. Do you think the sordid truth of the Autumn War should be made public knowledge? Even should it jeopardize our relations with Ala Mhigo?
An upright choice from an upright woman. Though Nourval's motives and methods are unconscionable, one cannot deny that there is justice in pursuing truth.
A practical choice from a practical woman. As a man of the military, it should be mine also. Though the truth would be lost, it is arguably a small sacrifice to make in the face of potential chaos.
Verily, a sound choice demands a sound grasp of the situation. As ever, you are an island of calm reason amidst a sea of chaos.
Thank you, Forename. As the leader of our unit, I am now ready to make my decision.
Let us find Guydelot. He will wish to hear it, too.
So, you've made up your mind, then? About what to do with the truth?
I have. I shall go to the Adders' Nest and entrust the journal to our superiors' care. Above all, we cannot allow it to be used as an instrument of hatred.
Having said that, neither will I stand for the truth to be erased. I will oppose any attempt to do so with all my being.
Er, I'm not sure I understand. What do you want to do exactly?
I will hand over the journal...on the condition that the truth be revealed one day, when the people are ready to accept it.
Call me indecisive, but I cannot bear to see the tome misused, nor the truth willfully buried.
Well, well, look at you! Sanson the Stiff, standing his ground!
Goes without saying, but I'm with you, Chief. Ain't no one gonna exploit or erase history on my watch.
Thank you, my friends. For trusting in me.
Don't let it get to your head, though, eh? Had your decision not been to my liking, I would've knocked you flat on your arse and resigned from your swivin' unit.
So much for “You decide”... <sigh> Never change, Guydelot.
Captain Sanson, right? Some fellow asked me to pass this letter to you.
Th-This is from Nourval!
