Ahh, I remember those red eyes. You were with those “Scions” who commissioned the scales from us, yes?
I welcome you back to the High Crucible. What brings you here in these troubling times?
We are assisting the satrap in investigating the crisis that plagues the city. Did you happen to catch sight of any of the creatures?
I did. As I was going about my work, I was disturbed by crashing footsteps so powerful that the very ground shook.
I rushed outside, and could not believe what I beheld. The night sky was burning...
Suddenly, I heard panicked screams coming from the direction of Balshahn Bazaar. In the next instant, a monstrous beast poked its head out from amidst the stalls!
A handful of the Radiant rushed to the scene, only to be sent sprawling as the fiend and its minions propelled themselves skyward.
...So the blasphemy came from the vicinity of the markets. This knowledge may prove useful. I thank you for sharing your tale.
Well, I do believe we now know where we should inquire next. To the bazaar, then.
After toiling days and nights to fashion your allies' warding scales, a great number of our alchemists were granted a respite.
In part because of this, the damage here at the Crucible was limited. On the other hand, we have not heard from many who were at home during the attack. We can only pray that they are safe.
According to Nuhadeen, the blasphemy came from the direction of Balshahn Bazaar. Let us inquire there to see if any of the vendors or customers can enlighten us further.
So this is Thavnairian weave...I must say, it bears a resemblance to the traditional fabrics of Corvos. Small wonder, really, given that it's just across the water.
...Not that I am much of an expert in Corvosi culture, of course. I've not had the occasion to visit my ancestral home since coming to Sharlayan, and like as not I will never reside there again.
That said, in recent days I've felt more acutely aware of my heritage...and grateful for it. It is thanks to my forebears that I inherited the Royal Eye─and with it, the wisdom of ancient Allag.
And so...well, I simply hope that my countrymen are safe. And one day, when this calamity is but a memory, I would like to see Corvos again, if only once.
