Understood.
Hearken to me! We only have one chance!
Channel your aether into my blade that I might strike before the mage casts his spell!
I cannot do it alone, but together...together we can defeat them!
Make ready! They come!
Trying to beat us at our own game? Hah!
I must have more aether!
Go to her, Forename! We will deal with the others!
I've...I've given her all I can. The rest is up to you!
I've...I've given her all I can. The rest is up to you!
You heard the man! Leave the fighting to us!
Hurry, Forename! Give me your aether!
Hurry, Forename! Give me your aether!
Caution, Forename! You mustn't channel so much at once!
Now, Blanhaerz! Kill her while she's weak!
Unto her blade we render our aether, that fortune may favor us this day...
Unto her blade we render our aether, that fortune may favor us this day...
The fate of two worlds hangeth in the balance, Forename! Quickly, thine aether!
The fate of two worlds hangeth in the balance, Forename! Quickly, thine aether!
This has gone on long enough! J'rhoomale─kill the girl!
Forename! The ranger! You must stop her!
Hurry it up, Naillebert!
Hurry it up, Naillebert!
We'll hold the line, Forename, but you must...you must...
We'll hold the line, Forename, but you must...you must...
That's it, that's it! We've got them!
'Tis done! With this blade I banish the darkness!
No... Not like this...
Alisaie! Are you hurt?
A touch dizzy, but otherwise fine. Thank you.
And there you have it. Our friend is too stubborn to die.
Hmph. We are far from finished.
Or have you never considered how we came to this world?
Crystals? You mean...like the Ascians?
Just so. As the Ascians flee unto the rift 'twixt planes with Crystals of Darkness, so did these warriors come hither with Crystals of Light.
Eloquent, as always. Aye, like the Ascians, we too are beyond death! You cannot defeat that which is eternal!
Wait!
Such methods as the Ascians employ require the renunciation of the flesh. You...you would have had to...
At long last, you see. To save our world, we gave our lives.
We were just adventurers trying to make our way. An odd job here, a favor there─we never aspired to be Warriors of Light.
But word of our deeds spread, and soon people were calling us heroes. They placed their hopes and dreams on our shoulders and bid us fight for all that was good and right.
We fought and we fought and we fought...until there was no one left to fight. We won...and now our world is being erased from existence.
We did everything right, everything that was asked of us, and still─still it came to this!
You of all people should understand! We cannot─we will not falter. We brought our world to the brink of destruction, and now we must save it.
I've died before, Arbert. I'm not afraid to die again.
No matter how many times we fall, we must rise and carry on the fight. For those we left behind.
To have known the depths of sorrow and embrace the highest sacrifice─nonetheless...Master Louisoix, guide my hand, I pray you, as fate's thread spinneth upon this most capricious spindle.
Quickly! Thou must needs invoke the power of thy crystal!
What is this place?
Such pain... Such sorrow... Oh, my dear children...
I-It can't be!
Mother Hydaelyn, hearken unto Your children's plea! From two worlds do we gather, and from two worlds do we offer a bounty of Light.
In this desperate hour, we do beseech Your intercession! We beg an audience with the Word of the Mother─with Your chosen, Minfilia!
Your cries go not unheard... Nor your sacrifices unnoticed...
Though many are lost, there are those we can yet save... Whom I can yet save...
Minfilia!
Blessed children of the First. The light of your world hath grown blinding in its radiance, but it is not yet absolute.
I will hie me to your world and there take unto myself the Light which riseth even now to drown it, as Darkness once did drown another.
Now you deign to answer our prayers!? I will suffer this farce no longer!
As the Ascians must serve as instruments of Zodiark's will, so too must others carry out the will of Hydaelyn.
But for the boon you have granted Her, She has grown strong enough to set me free, that I might serve as Her emissary.
Your suffering, your sacrifice, your supplications─She has heard all. We will not let the First fall to Light.
Thank you, Urianger, for bringing everyone here. It fills my heart with joy to look upon the faces of my friends once more.
In taking you unto Her bosom, I knew that Hydaelyn had bequeathed to you a sliver of Her grace, granting you strength long sought.
And in treating with the Ascians, I learned of a star like unto our own─a doomed world of fallen heroes, in whom I glimpsed ourselves. The First.
Full long did I search for a means to save this world, concluding at the last that the answer lay in the power of blessed crystals. And thus did I labor to set Light against Dark.
Yet I knew from the beginning that this salvation would not come without sacrifice, for the instrument of the First's deliverance would of necessity be required to journey thither...there to remain, mayhap forever.
You orchestrated all of this not to save her, but to send her away!?
One life for one world. Such was the bargain, and you the coin, though it were not mine to spend.
Have we not walked together in the light of the Crystal, and at Her bidding borne witness to the joys and sorrows of this land? Each and every one of you knows my heart. If this be the price I must pay, I pay it gladly.
...You would go alone then?
My dearest Thancred... You who have ever watched over me... I am truly grateful for all you have done on my behalf, as would my father be.
Your kindness, your compassion, your love... These are your gifts to me, and our gifts to them, forming a bond which transcends time and space.
Sometimes I forget you are not the child I once knew. Make me proud.
Long have I watched you from Hydaelyn's side. Watched as you nurtured and kept safe the light of the dawn.
The dark recesses of the world hide untold secrets and dangers. Thus do I entrust to you Tupsimati. I pray you keep to the path that you may never have need of it.
'Twould seem the power of our crystals is all but spent. Perhaps...if there is naught else to be done...
Hear me, servant of Hydaelyn. If you would have us place our trust in you, then I would ask a favor.
Take us with you. Take us home.
We were blind to the truth once. So I tell you this, as one fool to another. Light, Dark, it doesn't matter. What matters is how you choose to use them.
We made our choice, and you see what came of it. So please...forge a different path. Seize a better fate.
'Tis a strange feeling. So many times have I watched you depart, my heart filled with worry, and ever did you return to me in triumph.
Someday, when I have found a way to free this star from Her sorrow, I promise you I shall repay the favor.
Thank you, Lhaminn...for everything...
...It would seem we are in southern Thanalan again. Minfilia's doing, no doubt. May the Twelve speed her on her way...and the Warriors of Darkness too.
I cannot help but wonder what awaits those wayward souls. If they gave their lives in order to travel to the Source, then in returning to the First, would they not...?
...But mayhap that was their wish.
...Hm? Forgive me. My thoughts were elsewhere. And this when I know full well there is yet work to be done. The crystals─
Leave them to me. I will go back into Zahar'ak and secure them.
The Amalj'aa will still be in disarray after the thrashing the Warriors of Darkness gave them. They are not like to notice a lone bard skulking about.
But Thancred, you─
Don't have to do this, I know. But I want to. I will see you at the Rising Stones.
...I should go and find Yda and Papalymo. They must have finished searching the Masks' camp by now. Not that it matters anymore...
You must be tired, Forename. I know I am...
If thou wilt permit me, my lady, I would ask a question. When didst thou become aware of mine independent pursuits?
When I saw you meeting with that Warrior of Darkness and the Ascian in white at the Great Library.
I tried not to think the worst. You've never been one to confide in others, so I knew that even were your intentions pure, you would not share your plans with us until you felt the time was right.
But I cannot deny that a part of me feared you had simply betrayed us.
Would that there had been another way. Know that I took no pleasure in deceiving thee, and that these sins will forever weigh heavy on my heart.
...I understand why you did what you did. That you but sought to achieve the greatest good while inflicting the least harm. Not many would have the courage to make that choice.
But even knowing what came of your actions...I find that I cannot condone them. I'm sorry.
Forename, forgive me, but I believe the events of the day have taken their toll on me. I should like to rest for a while.
If thou wilt grant me leave, I would gladly escort thee unto a refuge of thine own choosing.Once my lady hath regained her strength, we shall join thee at the Rising Stones. Until then, Warrior of Light.
Well met, Forename. Alphinaud said you would be joining us.
'Twould seem the Griffin's double was telling the truth, insofar as we found nothing resembling a sizable cache of crystals in the Masks' camp. Did you perchance find one in Zahar'ak?
Actually...
...I don't believe it. The crystals, Minfilia, all of it. It's just─ I don't know what it is.
I sympathize, Yda. Even now, I struggle to comprehend that which I saw... The only thing I can say with any certainty is that I feel blessed to have been granted a final chance to speak with her. 'Twas bittersweet, aye, but also...affirming.
...Alphinaud, I believe it is past time Yda and I rejoined the Scions. We have been away for far too long.
Though I am loath to leave the Griffin to his own devices, I feel our investigation would benefit from your more dispassionate perspectives. And I hope that we might, in turn, offer our own opinions on the many challenges that you have faced in our absence.
Gods, it's been absolutely ages, hasn't it? I can't wait to hear about everyone's adventures.
We should be glad to recount them. And Tataru's tales may well surprise you.
Yda...? Yda! Rhalgr be praised, it is you!
Yda, alive and standing here before me, in the flesh! I can hardly believe my eyes!
I... Er...
Oh, come now, has it really been so long you don't remember me? It's Gundobald! I fought beside your father in the revolution!
Do not think less of her, friends! It's been twenty years since the occupation sent us our separate ways. But the Resistance were always welcome in Little Ala Mhigo. They gave us hope─and young Yda most of all!
Aye, Yda here was always full of fire, ever the first to volunteer for a mission. Until the day she up and vanished, that is! There were rumors, and we feared the worst, but here you are, alive and well, looking nary a day older!
W-Well, what can I say? I...I'm sorry for running off like that and making you all worry.
It's a long story, but, you see, I...I got involved with my friends here, the Scions─ Oh, sorry, we were still the Circle of Knowing back then, right! A-Anyway, I wanted to come back and tell you, but it was all very secretive stuff at the time and, uh...as you can see, I'm completely fine!
I know we've got a lot to talk about─and we will─but right now I've got to hurry back to our headquarters. My friends are expecting me!
Pray forgive her. It has been a very long day for us all. I promise we will visit again at the first opportunity.
Let us return to the Rising Stones.
Hells take me for giving you that mask...
Welcome home, Forename. I trust your journey was uneventful. You will be pleased to hear that Thancred has secured the crystals. He sent word a short while ago.
Once he has delivered them safely into the Temple Knights' care, he will rejoin us here, and we can declare this matter officially resolved.
While awaiting your arrival, I took the opportunity to contact Y'shtola and Krile, and briefed them on all that has occurred. I also requested that they return to the Rising Stones at their earliest convenience. Now that our lost friends have been found, it would seem meet to discuss the future.
Back in the solar! It's been too long since we were all together like this. Not since...not since after Moenbryda...
Much has changed since then─we ourselves most of all.
Though not all who were lost could be gathered here today, we may take comfort in the knowledge that those who are not are carrying on the fight.
While I am grateful to our friends in the north for their hospitality...it isn't half-good to be back!
But, as Papalymo rightly said, much has changed since we last stood here. The Scions of the Seventh Dawn are not as they once were. Nor should we be.
Our travels in the north brought us into contact with a host of fine and generous people, and their selfless deeds served to show me that it is not lofty causes that should inform our actions, but our hearts.
And I hope that the Scions might continue in this manner: as individuals driven by individual principles. Provided we all sincerely desire to work towards Eorzea's salvation, I believe the paths we follow to achieve it need not─and should not─be dictated by any single ideal.
Companions bound by a common purpose, free to go whither they will... The idea is not without merit.
Very well. I shall resume my research of the primals and the elder gods of Eorzea. Should anyone have need of my findings, you need only ask.
I should be glad of your continued assistance.
Well, my main purpose in coming here was to see the Scions of the Seventh Dawn restored and my dear friend found...
Nevertheless, having involved myself in your struggles, I feel compelled to see them through to the bitter end. For Minfilia's sake. That is, if there are no objections?
You will always be welcome here, Krile.
Urianger, can we trust you to carry on your investigation of the Ascians as before?
Regardless of mine own desires, I am undeserving of your trust, having so villainously deceived you all.
Now, now, I'll hear no more of that. 'Twould be disrespectful of Minfilia's wishes.
She entrusted matters here to us, that we might protect this star and understand the truth which hides at Her heart. Mayhap I can handle the former, but I think you far better suited to the latter, no?
Very well. Then out of love for my lady Minfilia and Moenbryda both, this shall be my solemn charge.
I... Papalymo and I should probably return to Thanalan to keep an eye on the Resistance.
There's still the matter of the Griffin and the Amalj'aa, not to mention the new imperial viceroy. That little lot must be worthy of our attention, right?
And what will you do, Alisaie?
You know I have no great love for organizations and formalities.
That being said...this new approach you propose is not wholly objectionable. And we've always got her to keep us from bickering.
But I will suffer no titles. I am not here for House Leveilleur, nor to walk in Grandfather's shadow.
Upon that point, we see eye to eye. If it please you, you may think of me as but another comrade-in-arms.
Well then, Alphy─I, for my part, shall see to the paperwork and the finances with my characteristic aplomb.
I would not have it any other way, Tataru.
And we mustn't forget you. What now for the Warrior of Light?
Indeed.
The path behind us was fraught with hardship, and the path before us will be no less unforgiving. But a new dawn shall break over the realm, and I see before me the faces of those who will deliver it.
Look at them, Forename. The Scions of the Seventh Dawn. Look how far we've come...
The people we've met. The moments we've shared. The losses we've suffered. The tragedies we've overcome. All of it has made us who we are today.
Where we go from here and what the future holds, only the Twelve know...
...But I know that we will find out together.
One world's heroes are another world's villains. One world's loss another world's gain.
“Where men go as one, there is life... And where there is life...”
My friends. If I may, I would ask that you entrust Tupsimati to me.
Clouds gather upon the horizon, and as Master Louisoix's disciple, I would keep it close at hand.
Thank you. I shall guard it well.
“...There is cause to hope.”
For every ending, every parting, marks a new beginning.
Well done, brother. You may resume your normal duties and rejoin the others. The coming battle shall be our greatest yet, and I intend to stand with you all on that glorious day.
...True believers are so readily led.
I have given them everything they desired. All for which they have prayed. I doubt you can say the same for your pawns.
Get what you wanted, then? Was it all worth it in the end?
There were some...unexpected developments, but they were ultimately to our advantage.
Be it host to a surfeit of Light or Dark, a world bereft of equilibrium is but a void in waiting. And a void is of no use to my master.I shall follow Her emissary with great interest.
As for the “pawns” whom you so pity...they have delivered unto me a gift, which I do now present to you.
The eyes of Nidhogg. Many were the candidates considered, but by your deeds, you have proven yourself the most deserving.
A man of boundless rage and bottomless despair, in whose breast beats a heart which thirsts for vengeance. Only you are fit to wield these eyes─for weal or for woe.
Hmph. So it was here all along...
Oh, just you wait, my pretty! You and I are going to have so much fun!
Ah, Forename, just the hero I wanted to see! Would you mind doing me a small favor?
I need you to meet me at the Diamond Forge. This won't take long, I promise!
I'm sorry to drag you away from your duties, but as I said, this won't take long! I just need you to stand perfectly still for a few moments...
Right, everyone! Ready to go to work?
No squirming now! Oh, and you might want to close your eyes...
Hee hee hee hee!
There! All finished! The Warrior of Light's every measurement, from heroic head to intrepid toe!
...Well, wouldn't you like to know! All in good time, Forename! All in good time!
A-ha! Found you!
Alphinaud wants everyone in the solar for a meeting. I don't know what it's about, but he seemed to think it was very important.
Go on, we have everything we need. No sense in keeping everyone waiting!
We're here! Did we miss anything?
We would not presume to begin without you, Yda.Urianger has returned to the Waking Sands, but everyone else is now present.
Yes, but for what, exactly? We all have duties to attend to, Alphinaud, so you may dispense with the preamble.
Thank you, Alisaie. It is the very subject of those duties which compelled me to call this gathering. Though the Warriors of Darkness no longer pose a threat, Eorzea's many troubles demand no less of our attention.
And while I stand by the decision to approach each task as we see fit, I fear our effectiveness will ultimately be diminished should we continue to act in ignorance of each other's efforts. Thus I propose we elect a successor to Minfilia─not to serve as a fully fledged Antecedent, perhaps, but as a coordinator of operations.
Is that all? Then the decision seems clear.
No one else has shown any enthusiasm for the role. And judging by your performance at our previous meeting, you would seem the perfect candidate. You always did have a flair for politics.
I-I did not mean to─ That was not my intention.
As my tenure as commander of the Crystal Braves comprehensively demonstrated, I lack the qualities required for such an office. I would much prefer to remain as I am now─a soldier in the field, so to speak.
Should none of our number step forward, must we then constrain some unwilling candidate to take up the position?
Well, based on merit alone, a certain adventurer would be my choice─though I concede she might struggle to balance her new responsibilities with, let me see...slaying primals, thwarting legatuses, and feeding the orphaned poor.
Thancred makes a good point. Any who would wear such a mantle would be bound by its obligations. Have we not become sufficiently familiar with each other's methods to act without an overseer? At present, I see no cause to so willingly limit one of our number.
Oh! Oh, my goodness! You're─ Help! I need some help here!
Tataru! Are you all right!?
Me!? I'm fine! It's this poor girl who just staggered in and collapsed on the floor that I'm worried about!
Naago!? Gods, how did─ Y'shtola, please, you have to help her!
Krile, a hand if you would. Let us see about closing these wounds.
Now, we've staunched the bleeding, but it may be a while before you can move about again. Though, having seen your wounds, I'm surprised you were still moving at all...
