Why, you, Brother─you and the Scions, of course! For a thousand days I trained, that I might grow as strong as you─that I might fight alongside you!
Yet now that you are here, I sense that you have surpassed me once more... No, do not tell me─you trained with the Hannish, did you not?
Your eyes do not deceive, Brother! Aye, I have studied the Trials of the Braves, and drunk deep of the souls of mine enemies!
Glad though I am to be home, I cannot help but think of those who have yet to return...
Once we have settled in, I would join the search.
It's been so long since I've seen them all like this.
Too long...
'Twas the chaos born of my foolish ambition which forced them to flee.
Though they are returned, there are others yet missing─others whom we cannot forsake.
We'll find them, Alphinaud─I know we will! Minfilia, Yda, Papalymo...every last one!
And when they walk through those doors, we'll be here to welcome them home.
With me at the head of the queue, of course!
Thancred and Krile contacted us a short while ago. It would seem that their foray into Castrum Meridianum bore fruit.
They ask that we rendezvous with them and Y'shtola in Idyllshire, where they will share their findings.
Rude though it is to depart without speaking to the guest of honor, I expect she will forgive me if I return with her daughter.
My apologies, I see I am the last to arrive. So─what news have you for us?
Well, as we postulated, there were indeed what appeared to be the remnants of an unexplained disturbance in the aether at the scene of the Ultima Weapon's destruction. A ripple at odds with the presiding pattern.
Though faint, the waveforms bore a strong resemblance to those observed following the destruction of the Isle of Val─when I believe Hydaelyn shielded me with the blessing of Light.
To confirm our findings, we paid a visit to the Sil'dih Aqueducts.
There we detected the same waveform, but orders of magnitude larger...as one would expect of a more recent disturbance.
Hydaelyn. There is no other explanation.
But there is more. When I studied the site where Y'shtola used Flow, it appeared that not two but three beings had been affected.
Yet unlike Y'shtola and Thancred, there was no trail to follow. Our unknown third party was simply there...and then not there.
Now, recall your visions of a vast crystal floating in a sea of aether. Though this too is but a theory, studies of gifted subjects suggest that, when communing with Hydaelyn, we briefly leave our bodies behind.
So, let us consider the facts. One─Hydaelyn interceded. Two─a third being was caught in Y'shtola's Flow and vanished without a trace. And three─Hydaelyn may have the capacity to summon the consciousness of gifted individuals to Her side.
You are implying, I take it, that Hydaelyn guided Minfilia into the compass of my magick...that She might summon her, body and soul, unto the aetherial sea?
In which case, we must needs continue our search there. For a blessing, the means to do so already exists.
I speak of the Antitower─a Sharlayan construction conceived to provide scholars a vantage point over the aetherial sea.
Though I know not where its entrance lies, we need only ask its last custodian─a contrary old crone who, for another blessing, refused to join the exodus.
Master Matoya was the keeper of the Antitower!? I had no idea...
Then our course is clear. We must petition her aid once again.
Oh, what a surprise. Well? What secrets have you come to extract from me this time?
Ah. Though it pains me to admit it, your words strike close to the mark. We humbly ask that you grant us entry to the Antitower, that we might use it to seek a friend who we believe has been transported to the aetherial sea.
And who told you I could do such a thing, I wonder.
The tower was abandoned to its magical keepers fifteen years ago. They have the run of the place now. If that is no deterrent to you, then by all means.
Is that all? I felt sure you would seek to dissuade us from our course, given your role as custodian.
Role? Hardly. The Forum foisted the title on me.
During the exodus, every entrance to the Antitower was sealed save one.
My role consists of making sure no one with ill intent sneaks through it. Such was the Forum's final “order” to me.
Well? I can remove the wards right now. Will you be going or not?
We will, Master Matoya. We will do whatever it takes to find Minfilia!
...We'll see about that.
You, Baldesion girl─you're staying here with me. I need your help to restore the wards to their original state.
The rest of you can go─on the condition that you clean up the mess in the tower. If you encounter any unruly familiars, you're to tend to them. Those are my terms, and I'll hear no argument.
Well, it appears the mistress has spoken. Lead the way, Forename.
An aetherial path... No simple thing to create.
...Let's keep moving.
By the Twelve, it's literally upside down!
The aether is so dense as to be blinding.
Good gods, what an enormous poroggo!
