Let me have some! Let me have some!
<whimper>
They're all hers?
Ack, it's not fair...
I-I don't want to be eaten!
You are under my protection here and will not be harmed. I give you my word.
Follow me.
The longer one lives, the more one yearns for peace. I understand why some would sequester themselves here.
'Tis quite a gathering of voidsent. I pray one among them has the knowledge we seek.
'Tis said that a person's domain is a reflection of what abides in their heart. If true, this place may offer a glimpse into Zero's past.
This is my abode. The others won't come near, so you may be at ease.
While they know their place, if tantalizing aether were to walk by, I can't guarantee they wouldn't pounce.
It is a voidsent's nature to consume. Their sole purpose. Even if the pursuit of aether may lead to their undoing, many succumb to instinct.
But any who succumb here will have to answer to me. This is my domain's one and only rule─and it is absolute.
Consider yourselves duly warned. If you wish to go among the voidsent here, that is your choice to make.
All have fled from one master or another. But whether any of those masters in turn served Golbez, I do not know. You must ask them yourselves.
Most have traveled to your world, so it shouldn't be difficult to communicate.
We shall go about making inquiries at once. Thank you for your counsel.
Once we've learned all we can, let us reconvene at yonder plaza.
You're going too, of course? In which case, I shall accompany you.
I wish only to observe. Do not expect me to help.
Then it's settled. I'm ready when you are.
As you may recall, when a larger voidsent is summoned, only its soul makes the journey to the Source.
Upon its arrival, it takes possession of a host body. But during that time, what becomes of its actual body here in the Thirteenth?
The answer to this question may give us valuable insight into cross-rift travel.
To that end, while asking after Golbez, I shall also see what the voidsent can tell me about their experiences when summoned.
'Twas in order to strike down the Cloud of Darkness that my sister crossed over into the void.
What befell her after she vanished into the gate? How did she become Golbez's captive? These things and more, I hope to learn...
If a voidsent is too weak to create its own domain, it must join with others for protection.
Alternately, it might devour them in a bid to become stronger, but in so doing risk losing its sense of self.
'Tis an unenviable struggle...
Ready? Then lead the way. I leave it to you to decide with whom you speak.
Although this is my domain, I don't make a habit of strolling about. 'Tis a strange feeling...
You have other business? Fine. Come and find me at my abode when you've finished.
Finished tending to your other affairs? Then let us continue on.
I call this my abode, but spend hardly any time here. I return only for meditation.
While physical wounds can be healed by replenishing one's aether, you can't preserve your form if you lose sight of yourself.
Such is the risk inherent in consuming another's soul. It dilutes your sense of self. Alters you inside and out.
To guard against this, I meditate. Visualize who I am, in a place all my own.
This is the heart of my domain. Normally it's deserted, but you and yours have drawn everyone out.
I don't recall this statue, though...
However it came to be here, I certainly didn't wish for it.
