Ah, you were right about the ship, then. Hello, G'raha, it's nice to see you again!
And it's a pleasure to finally meet you, Forename. I've heard many a tale of your exploits.
Ojika!? Ojika Tsunjika! It has been an age...
Allow me to introduce Ojika Tsunjika─administration officer for the Students of Baldesion. He oversees the day-to-day business of the annex.
The “champion of Eorzea” has featured prominently in Krile and G'raha's reports, so for me, this is akin to seeing a fabled hero come to life! It is an honor to make your acquaintance.
This place is like a second home for the Students... The Isle of Val served as our main headquarters, of course, but we often had occasion to visit Sharlayan.
Whether to make use of the city's research facilities, attend conferences, or procure supplies from distant shores...
And the annex here was built to provide lodgings for our members while we engaged in such activities.
Ever since our former headquarters─along with the isle itself─vanished, the annex has served as our base of operations.
And yet it feels so empty. With so many lost to us, our organization is a shell of its former self.
The day will come when we will see the Students rise again...
But first, we must ensure that the Telophoroi fall!
Through that door on the left there is the main hall, where we can discuss our options moving forward.
...Once everyone arrives, that is. You probably have time to rest before our discussions begin in earnest.
I've had private quarters prepared for you in the andron, so please, feel free to make yourself at home!
Ah, the nap rooms! Perfect for an afternoon doze...
Oh, I didn't mean to give you the wrong impression─the chambers are quite well appointed! Far more so than some cheap roadside inn, you may be assured.
'Twas simply that we were often so busy with research, or exhausted from journeys abroad, that we would slip into the andron just to steal a few winks.
And thus they became known amongst the Students as “nap rooms”─even if many such “naps” might last well into the following morning!
Say the word, and I'll be happy to show you to your chamber.
Hopefully the others won't be too long in coming! I'll wait for you all in the main hall.
Do you have papers pasted on the walls of your room? 'Twas not unusual for occupants to pin up notes or documents and such, and then forget to take them when they went on their merry way.
Sometimes it was quite deliberate, though. You might see complaints addressed to other members, or a thank-you card for the engrossing literature someone left behind.
Beloved traditions...that I should know better than to dwell upon. If we are to create a future for the Students of Baldesion and so many others, we must look to the days ahead.
Feeling refreshed and alert? Our colleagues should be wandering in soon, so I suggest we stay here and wait for them to join us.
Pray forgive me. I was delayed...
It's fine, Urianger. We're all here now.
Let's get down to business then, shall we?
Come what may, we must prevent the Telophoroi's plans from coming to fruition. At present, I see two paths for gathering the information which may aid us in achieving that goal.
The first involves an investigation into the change which has come over Sharlayan, not to mention the recent, inscrutable behavior of the Forum.
As most of you know, the ninety-nine members of the Forum are elected from the general populace. This alone guarantees a plethora of opinion with regards to foreign policy.
The Bibliothecs, for example, are a group of conservatives which would have Sharlayan focus on recording history, while remaining entirely uninvolved in the making of it.
And at the other extreme, we have advocates for proactive diplomacy and direct intervention. My grandfather, Galuf, was one such member, as was Archon Louisoix.
Yet despite our diverse factions and philosophies, the recent vote to deny Eorzea's request for assistance was unanimous.
Even more concerning was the fact that many cited other, more pressing duties as justification for their recalcitrance.
Fourchenault's refusal in Gridania had those same undertones. 'Twas as if, having stared unblinking into the face of impending doom, he'd simply turned away to pursue something more important. But what could that possibly be?
A mystery, indeed, and one which I ask for your help to solve. Our future may depend on it.
As for our second potential path, it concerns a request made directly to the Students of Baldesion.
Our organization was founded primarily to study strange and unexplained phenomena the world over. Mysterious relics and ruins, arcane disturbances, and so forth.
Compared to our more isolationist Sharlayan colleagues, we have strong connections overseas─namely with scholars and academics who share our passion for the unknown.
The request in question comes from one such acquaintance─Nidhana, an alchemist residing in distant Thavnair.
Her missive describes the sudden appearance of a tower, and the subsequent summoning of what I can only assume is a lunar primal.
In response to this threat, the satrap of Radz-at-Han─the individual who governs the city-state─has instructed the alchemists to find a means to deal with the spire.
The artisans of that land are heirs to an ancient tradition─one rather unlike that of their Ul'dahn counterparts.
'Tis possible─nay, probable─that they have gleaned truths unattainable by Eorzea or her Far Eastern allies.
They do, in fact, appear to have a strategy in mind, though it will require further research. To that end, they have requested an introduction to a capable warrior shielded by the blessing of Light.
Assuming we divide our forces to pursue both of Krile's lines of inquiry, then having you join the group heading to Thavnair would seem the obvious choice.
But the investigation in Sharlayan is of vital importance as well. Equal, I think, to the Thavnairian one, given that the fate of the world may hinge on the results of both.
Yes, it is quite the quandary.
Though it is a great imposition─and an altogether-too-common one─our efforts would be more likely to succeed were you to lead the charge on both fronts.
You are indeed our champion. As to which task to tackle first, we will defer to your decision. Let us next decide how everyone else might best be assigned.
As for myself, I shall continue what I've begun in Sharlayan. I should also like to steal the services of an Archon or two.
And thereby gain access to a greater range of reading material. I will help with that.
Allow me to offer my assistance. I have some small amount of experience in the field of research.
Alisaie and I would also like to help, if you would have us.
Anything to understand even a fraction of what our father and the Forum might be thinking.
Of course, the more the merrier!
Right, the rest of us will make the journey to Thavnair.
Thoughts? Objections?
I passed through Thavnair on my way to infiltrate the Empire, and though I'm not qualified to give a guided tour, I did gain a sense of where things lie.
I'll be happy to have you along then. So for this group, it will be you, me, and Urianger.
Give me a moment afterwards, and I'll supply you with all the details of Nidhana's request.
Consider this hall our rendezvous point once our respective tasks are complete. May our investigations prove fruitful!
Our tour of the city was a pleasant distraction. I feel more than ready now to tackle the challenges of the day!
The process by which Forum members are elected is fair and equitable─neither wealth nor social standing offers any advantages to a prospective candidate. But fairly elected or not, Master Matoya still found them all to be insufferable.
If the Forum is intent on concealing its intentions, then a cursory investigation will avail us little, I suspect. We will need to dig deeper─and with the greatest of care...
I still don't understand how the vote could be unanimous... What could possibly convince them all to turn their backs on Eorzea?
So it's back to Thavnair... Had I known earlier, I would have considered more suitable attire.
Though I have read much on the subject of Radz-at-Han, this visit shall be my first. 'Twill be interesting to see how the Hannish mean to contend with the tower, different as their magical and technological disciplines are.
An unsettling change has come over Sharlayan, but together we will divine the underlying cause for the Forum's callousness.
As I mentioned before, however, questioning the councilors directly is a fruitless endeavor. They seem to have already come to a consensus as to what─and how little─they are willing to divulge.
Which is why I began scouring Sharlayan's archive of historical records for any hint of a connection to the Final Days.
Suffice it to say that progress has been slow─there are only so many dusty pages one can skim in a day. But now that I have this band of willing reinforcements, the search should proceed all the swifter!
Let us reconvene outside Noumenon, shall we?
Exit the annex to the right, and you'll find the archives on the western edge of the woods.
My directions were easy enough to follow, I hope? In any case, you stand now before the doors of Noumenon, Sharlayan's grandest collection of books and tomes!
This building is actually only an entrance─and one of many at that─for the archives of Noumenon extend deep beneath the surface like the roots of a tree. The vast halls of the Great Gubal Library pale in comparison to Noumenon's endless maze of subterranean chambers.
Any citizen of Sharlayan is free to enter and peruse its shelves. ...Well, most of its shelves. Only Archons are afforded access to certain restricted vaults.
I've dispatched Y'shtola and Raha to investigate those. Meanwhile, Alisaie and Alphinaud will help me continue my search through the stacks open to the general public.
Your status presents more of a problem. As a non-citizen, you are only permitted to browse the first floor here at the entrance. Even so, there should be a number of books which touch upon Sharlayan history or Forum policy.
Your task will be to find and study the relevant publications. I promise you, a working knowledge of those subjects will make it far easier to spot the sort of clues we're looking for.
Let us be about it, shall we? I've told the others to meet us at the stone benches over there once they've found some promising tomes. Happy reading!
