Yes... It seems all the invited reporters have arrived... Understood, I shall proceed as planned...
There you are, adventurer! Let's not keep our host waiting.
Ah, you must be from The Raven. Allow me to welcome you personally to the Gold Saucer.
Oh, I did not expect to see you there, Mistress Surname! You are always welcome as our honored guest.
An honored guest, is it? It seems I picked the right adventurer for the job.
Mistress Surname is helping you? Well, I must say, this gives The Raven a significant advantage.
With your arrival, all of our guests are present. Now, if I could have but a moment of your time...
Illustrious reporters of Eorzea, I welcome you one and all to the Gold Saucer. My name is Ollier, and I have the distinct pleasure of serving as an attendant here.
As you are well aware, we are currently holding our most fabulous event of the year─the Make It Rain Campaign.
During its duration, guests may receive up to fifty percent more MGP, a currency which can be exchanged within these gilded walls for a bevy of fantastic goods. People of all stripes pour into the Gold Saucer during this event, eager to take their piece of the generous bounty we offer.
However, some in Eorzea have yet to grace us with their patronage, which is why we have invited the most esteemed reporters in the realm to partake in our festivities...and prepared sizable compensation for your resulting articles.
Of course, a simple tour would hardly suffice to satisfy such curious minds as yours. So we have taken the liberty of preparing a little diversion for the occasion.
Behold this masterful mammet, made in the precise likeness of Godbert Manderville. We have hidden four throughout the Gold Saucer─one in each section, excluding Chocobo Square.
Use your keen reporter's sense to seek them out. And to the one who finds the most mammets...
We shall reward an exclusive interview with the man himself, President Godbert Manderville of Manderville & Manderville, famed goldsmith and proprietor of dreams!
No paper has ever succeeded in securing a personal interview with Godbert Manderville! Can you believe our luck!?
He's right─an interview with Godbert Manderville would draw more eyes to The Raven than news of another Calamity! This isn't a competition to be taken lightly!
Hmm... The reward is worthwhile, to be sure, but both Master Tharal and I have come here alone, while The Raven seems to have sent two reporters.
I propose that the Harbor Herald and the Mythril Eye join forces. That would even the odds enough, methinks.
I've no objection to that. To the winners go Manderville's secrets─to the losers, pitiful ignorance. Let's keep our eyes well peeled, adventurer!
Then let us make an addendum to the rules─in the case both teams find the same number of mammets, the swiftest to return will be judged the victor.
Now, let the mammet hunt begin! Search every corner of our establishment, and may you find the bounties you seek.
Which team of reporters will prove to have the keenest eyes and sharpest senses? I look forward to finding out.
Since the mammet hidden in Entrance Square cannot be seen from the threshold, it can only be in Card Square. Heh heh, the interview is as good as mine.
Godbert, Godbert, where is the Godbert? Hmm... Nowhere, it seems.
If there are four wind-up Godberts hidden out there, we should each search for two.
You take Wonder Square and Round Square, and I'll cover the remaining two sections. An equal division of labor!
If anything happens, we can stay in touch via this linkpearl. Now, let's find those mammets and win that interview!
Godbert, oh Godbeeert... Ugh, where are you?
Godbert, oh Godbeeert... Ugh, where are you?
Bad news, adventurer. It seems I wasn't quick enough to find the mammet in Entrance Square. Please tell me you're faring better than I.
You found one!? Thank goodness! We're still in the running. I'll make haste to Event Square─godsspeed in finding your final mammet!
Where could one hide in such an open space? If I were a mammet...
Where could one hide in such an open space? If I were a mammet...
Adventurer, good news this time! I found the mammet in Event Square!
You found yours, too? Then it's settled! That interview is mine─oh, is ours, of course.
We must report our victory to Ollier at once. See you at Entrance Square!
Just a moment after I spied the mammet, I spied the reporter from The Raven picking it up. Oh, if only I didn't stop for refreshments...
It seems I was no match for you, adventurer. You found both mammets before I even had a chance to take the lay of the land. I know who to call upon next time I need to search for treasure.
There you are! Quite impressive work, I must say. To think we would trounce the opposition so convincingly─all thanks to your eagle eyes!
Welcome back. Mistress Jakkya has informed me that you were able to find two mammets?
Indeed! Exactly two likenesses. The final results are as follows─three mammets found by the reporters of The Raven and one mammet by the reporters of the Mythril Eye and the Harbor Herald.
Which means that The Raven shall be rewarded with an exclusive interview with Lord Manderville! Congratulations to you both!
Once you have sufficiently prepared yourselves, simply speak to me and I shall summon him forthwith.
This is a dream come true─a scoop to surpass all scoops! I've made my preparations, so whenever you're ready, just say the word.
I trust you are ready for the interview? I shall call upon Lord Manderville, so please wait here until his arrival.
As for the Harbor Herald and the Mythril Eye, I ask that you follow me.
While none are as knowledgeable as Lord Manderville, our staff shall do their utmost to guide you upon an educational─and dare I say entertaining─journey of the Gold Saucer.
Ho ho ho! Apologies for the wait. I take it you're the eagle-eyed reporter from The Raven.
Accompanied by none other than my old friend Forename, I see! You haven't decided to doff the mantle of adventurer in favor of a reporter's quill and ink, have you?
Lord Manderville, 'tis a pleasure to make your personal acquaintance. My name is Kipih Jakkya of The Raven, and I have the honor of penning this exclusive interview with your esteemed personage.
This adventurer was kind enough to assist me on this project, so please consider her a temporary member of our staff.
Very good, very good! I am overjoyed to host you both at my darling Gold Saucer.
Naturally, I expect some initial awkwardness as I become accustomed to the process, but I shall do my utmost to bare both body and soul to your inquiries. Ask away!
Your candor is much appreciated, Lord Manderville. Now then, perhaps you might share with us some exclusive details regarding the Gold Saucer's creation?
Ohoho, a simple question! I thought you might ask me to divulge the secret of my family's peerless beauty, which has been carefully guarded for generations.
Y-Yes, well, I intend to get there in time, of course. But the objective of my article is to convey the charm of your establishment to my readers, and where better to start than with the tale of its inception?
Only a reporter most masterful looks past the beauty of the man to the beauty of what he has wrought. How delightful, indeed! Come, allow me to give you the grand tour whilst answering your question with pomp and circumstance.
Let us head for the aetheryte plaza, which rests in the heart of the Gold Saucer. From there I shall guide, and show you why House Manderville's ingenuity knows no equal!
I very much look forward to hearing the story of the Gold Saucer from the man himself!
If there is any place you wish to see first, simply ask Master Godbert─you'll hear no objections from me.
Have you finished with your interview already, Mistress Forename? I was informed that Lord Manderville intended to commence his personal tour from the aetheryte plaza.
Allow me to welcome you anew to the Gold Saucer! I, Godbert Manderville, am at your complete disposal. Simply tell me where you wish to go and you shall have my personal escort!
Five years after the Seventh Umbral Calamity ravaged Eorzea, the Gold Saucer rose from the sands of Ul'dah, serving as a beacon for all in the realm who sought leisure and diversion.
For the Calamity had dealt the city-states a grievous blow, and each and every citizen had worked tirelessly to see their homes healed. I built the Gold Saucer to be a place where the beleaguered could forget their worries for a time and remember the feeling of a smile upon their faces.
A noble purpose, to be sure─especially considering the amount of your own wealth you poured into reconstruction efforts.
To build a legendary monument of recreation during such trying times must have been a challenge, considering the resources and manpower necessary for such an undertaking.
But that is exactly why it had to be done! To give work to hands robbed of purpose by disaster and thereby construct the backbone of a thriving economy.
I owe a great debt to each and every person under my employ. It was only by their hard work and diligence that the Gold Saucer was able to aid Eorzea in her time of need.
As the cactus weathers hot desert climes, so too did my workers persevere with indefatigable spirit. For this reason, I chose the sabotender as our mascot, with the appellation “Senor” as a sign of respect for their contributions.
All of that being said, the Gold Saucer is no charity. Quite the opposite in fact! An operation of this magnitude would soon shrivel in the sun without the steady flow of profit.
There is much more I could say on the matter, but alas, we only have so much time! Let us return to the aetheryte plaza and perhaps consider a change of scenery.
Ho ho ho! Round Square, yes! So famous for...eh...
...Ah, yes, of course! Mt. Corel soars majestic over its domain! Have you ever seen its like before?
I wager you haven't! For this peak that countless visitors climb and descend daily is a construction of my imagination. Do you know what inspired me?
Inspired? This was fashioned based on a model?
That it was, but I'm not surprised the name wouldn't ring familiar. Mt. Corel appears in a classic tale I used to enjoy immensely as a young lad.
As a mountain that fed a booming mining industry, you can see how it would inspire the liberal use of explosives for this attraction.
We procure our bombs from goblin artisans, thereby extending a unique commercial opportunity to merchants who might otherwise be shunned or feared by others.
Naturally, we needed to ensure the explosives would create a thrilling spectacle without risk of injury. I myself spent many a day testing the efficacy of a variety of blasting powders upon my person... Oh, to be so young again!
Alas, although I could expound upon this topic for moons, I'm sure your readers wish for an article as varied as the Saucer itself. Let us return to the aetheryte plaza and consider where we might go to next.
Hoho, as the name implies, here is where we hold our grandest events. At present, Masters Typhon and Yojimbo perform their regularly scheduled show, to the delight of all and sundry.
Ah, yes, speaking of this “Master” Typhon... I've heard tell that he's a terrifying monster, whose sneezes are powerful enough to send someone flying off their feet. Pardon my directness, but does this not pose a danger to your guests?
Danger!? Why, no, none at all! You can rest assured that behind Master Typhon's frightening countenance lies the kind heart of a model employee who cares deeply for the safety of our guests.
Ah, I remember the day we met fondly... Master Typhon had been ushered into our realm due to an attempt by the Thaumaturges' Guild to summon voidsent, and after a journey full of twists and turns that yielded him no means to return from whence he came, he decided to seek gainful employment.
Once I heard of his story, I knew he would be perfect as one of our attractions. After the requisite job interviews, I hired him on the spot.
Albeit, he did get off to a sticky start, unleashing sneeze upon mighty sneeze in alarming succession. However, once I realized he meant only to offer up a reprieve from that day's blistering heat, I thanked him for his kindness, and he has been amenable to constructive criticism ever since.
Of course, you know quite well how refreshing Master Typhon's sneezes can be. The tales of your bout with him and Master Ultros are still told to this day. Oh, were I there to witness it myself!
Now, as much as I would like to regale you further, I fear I'm on the edge of rambling. Let us conclude our tour of Event Square and return to the aetheryte plaza.
Wonder Square was envisioned as a place where our patrons can kick up their feet and take in the wondrous scenery we've arranged for them. The second floor is equipped with a cocktail lounge which offers the realm's finest libations.
From what I've heard, this area is among the most popular. Is it true that you even offer games hailing from the Far East?
Ho, ho, just so! Our Doman mahjong has received great acclaim since its introduction here. There is nothing quite like it in all the realm.
'Twas brought to my attention by an employee who spent time in the Far East. There, it is played as simple recreation, as a display of hospitality, or in fierce competition amongst commonfolk and nobility alike.
Truly, it brings me great joy that people can come here to enrich themselves with games from distant lands. I only hope that we can introduce even more games from places far and wide to the people of Eorzea!
Ah, but there is still so much to see! Perhaps we should return to the aetheryte plaza, and consider the next part of your hard-won interview.
Pressing matters to attend to? Very well! I shall wait here until you wish to resume the tour.
Pressing matters to attend to? Very well! I shall wait here until you wish to resume the tour.
Very good. I believe I have more than enough information to write several articles!
Feeling tired already, adventurer? Well, let it not be said that The Raven neglects to allow its assistants proper time for rest. I'll accompany Lord Manderville on the rest of the tour and bask in what tidbits of lore he deigns to offer!
It's been quite a while since I've spoken of my beloved Gold Saucer at such length. I do hope my ramblings did not bore you.
Far from it, Lord Manderville. I quite enjoyed your anecdotes, as I'm sure will each and every one of The Raven's readers!
Ho, ho, I am delighted to hear it.
We built the Gold Saucer to revitalize commerce and rekindle the spark of joy in people's lives.
Laughter and smiles are as much a lifeblood as food and shelter. This place serves to fulfill that all too elusive need.
Not only for our patrons, but for our workers who tirelessly keep the Gold Saucer operating smoothly. My greatest hope is for their happiness.
I see... A beacon of joy, guiding people to the smiles they've forgotten. I believe I can use that...
Thank you for everything, Lord Manderville! This interview gave me all I need for a phenomenal article.
Ohoho, it was entirely my pleasure. May your pen burst forth with inspiration as do the clouds with rain─or as the Gold Saucer does with MGP!
Do be sure to speak with Ollier on your way out. He has something prepared that I believe will bring a smile to your face!
Like gold itself, the ideals which guide this establishment are immutable. I invite the both of you to return whensoever you please!
I can feel the ideas bubbling to the surface already... I must start writing at once!
Welcome back. Allow me to thank you once again for answering our invitation.
The pleasure was all mine. It was an honor to hear such firsthand accounts from the Gold Saucer's founder.
I see now that this amusement center was designed with much care for the people it serves.
In fact, I'm thinking of entitling my article “The Gold Saucer: Where Hearts of Gold Reign.”
I hope it will convince more people to come and visit for themselves─and perhaps take with them a heart full of mirth.
Of course I haven't forgotten you, adventurer. I shall make sure to credit you in my article front and center!
Before you depart, allow me to present you with a small token of our appreciation. Our event will be underway for some time yet, so we hope you continue to enjoy all the Gold Saucer has to offer!
