Oh, hello there. Are you a friend of Reeq's?
Forename, this is Miss Olvara, the wet nurse who raised me for practically the entirety of my childhood. She was bonded to my family and lived with us in the city at the time, but when I came of age she was forced to leave...
My, you've grown into such a strapping young man! But...I can't imagine you came to Gatetown just to pay me a visit, my little Reeq?
Not in front of her, if you please... But to answer your question, we did in fact come to see you.
There were stories you told me as a child of a courageous hunter. Was that hunter perchance the Warrior of Light, Renda-Rae?
Of all the reasons you could've had...
Aye, those stories were of Renda-Rae. The greatest bounty hunter of her day, the legend so many aspired to become.
Less so, after the Flood. It was still fresh in everyone's minds when I was younger, and for all the good they had done in life, none could deny the chaos they sowed in death. As sin eaters...
But despite all of that, me and my mates still looked up to her. We knew all her feats and swore to preserve them─in secret if need be─that she might inspire future generations as she had ours.
So years and years later, when you wanted to hear tales of adventure and heroism, I couldn't help but share with you the ones nearest and dearest to my heart. I only wish I hadn't had to change all the names.
Then it's true. The hero who I looked up to as a child, whose tales of derring-do drove me to take up the bow, as you had─to pester you for training that I might become a bounty hunter...it was her.
Miss Olvara. Forename and I are hunting Andreia, and we believe that one of the stories you shared with me may help guide our search. Namely, the one about the great horned beast that killed her friends. Will you tell it to me again?
Wicked white, is that... Oh, my little Reeq. Very well...
Even as a young hunter, Renda-Rae's incredible hearing was unparalleled. She could track her quarry through a forest by the most minute sounds of their passing─from malms away, even, by some accounts.
Even the most subtle and stealthy beasts never eluded her for long. A misplaced foot, a snapped branch─eventually, Renda-Rae would know, and her aim was always good and true.
As she grew older and honed her skills further, she set her eyes on bigger prizes. She became a hunter of notorious marks, and together with her comrades earned fame and fortune.
As their reputation swelled, so too did their egos. Only the most dangerous game would suffice. And so they resolved to hunt the scourge of Norvrandt, the devourer of souls─Balam-Quitz.
But what Renda-Rae did not realize was that her greatest strength would prove her undoing, for when she faced Balam-Quitz, the beast roared with such force that it brought her to her knees. Helpless, she could only watch as it claimed the lives of her beloved comrades and fled.
After burying the hunters and vowing that she would one day avenge them, she took to the road once more. She met Ardbert and his fellow Warriors of Light, and for a time she accompanied the fledgling heroes on their adventures.
To them, she was a breath of fresh air─a vibrant young woman who savored every moment and found joy in the simple pleasures. They knew naught of her fallen friends or how their deaths weighed heavy upon her still.
The party wandered the realm, performing many great deeds and growing ever stronger, as did Renda-Rae. While in Kholusia, she even devised a means to defend against the powerful roar that had been her downfall that fateful day.
And then, while engaged in an adventure in Rak'tika, a rumor reached Renda-Rae's ears. Balam-Quitz, scourge of Norvrandt, devourer of souls, had been spotted wandering the Citia Swamps.
'Twas a golden opportunity, but to seize it would be to face the beast alone. She could not wait for Ardbert and the others, nor could she ask that they forsake their sworn duty.
But perhaps it was just as well...for the memory of her defeat still haunted her. The courageous hunter had allowed a single fear to take root in her heart: the fear of losing her new companions as she had her old.
So it was that Renda-Rae ventured forth in secret, resolved to slay her hated foe, Balam-Quitz, alone...
...and with all her strength and guile the legendary hunter did just that.
Vengeance claimed, she rejoined Ardbert and the others, and never spoke of the terrible battle 'twixt her and the dread beast. From that day forward, she was Renda-Rae, the Warrior of Light, and the deeds of her and her comrades would be celebrated forevermore.
It's strange to think that the woman I admired when I was young would become the sin eater I swore to slay...
What she became doesn't change who she was. Even if the tales were a little embellished over the years, they were rooted in truth. She was and will always be a hero to me─and to you, I hope.
Thank you, Miss Olvara, for everything. I promise I will visit you again soon.
So, Forename─remember that theory I told you before about the Virtues being driven by powerful memories? If Andreia is reenacting the journey leading up to her confrontation with Balam-Quitz─the one that took her from Amh Araeng to Kholusia─then her next destination must be...
Right! That was where she laid low the beast at last—in the Citia Swamps, to be precise.
Wait, what? No! She went to the Rak'tika Greatwood─the Citia Swamps, to be precise.
And so that is where we shall go. Let us away!
Now listen, Reeq: there's an awful lot people don't know about Renda-Rae. Or the world, for that matter.
So wherever you go and whatever you see, remember not to take it at face value. Don't just accept what others tell you as good and true. Listen to your heart and decide for yourself. And be safe.
Forename, was it? It is such a pleasure to meet a friend of Reeq's...
His parents never hesitated to provide him with all the wealth and opportunities they could, but when it came to love and support, well...all I can say is that it is a miracle that boy turned out as well as he did.
One can never have too many friends or too much support. That goes for you as well, I should think.
I know he may be a bit exhausting at times, but do try to be patient with Reeq.
When I was little, Miss Olvara seemed so much bigger and stronger than me. Though...to be perfectly honest, the way she carries herself even now bespeaks a confidence I cannot help but envy...
But never mind that! We have a Virtue to hunt! Let us commence our search at once─and keep your weapons at the ready, my friend...
Heh, about time our luck took a turn for the better. There she is...
What? Now!? Oh, you've got to be kidding me!
I wish you were all here with me...but I know it's better that you're not.
We have a score to settle, you bloody bastard─and this time, I'm ready for your tricks...
Balam-Quitz! Vengeance will be mine this day!
I'm so sorry...
Just wait until I hit you with one of my dulling arrows...
Gah, my ears! Need to use the arrows...
All I need is one good shot with a dulling arrow...
It worked! I've got you now, you bastard...
You'll pay for taking them from me!
Like I'll let you roar again! I've got plenty of arrows left!
Calm down. Trust the arrows. Shut its bloody gob...
Grr... Need to hit it with a dulling arrow...
Yes, yes! Just like that!
Without your roar you're nothing!
It was my fault. My failure. That's why I have to do it alone...
The arrows...use the arrows. It's the only way...
Gotta hit it with a dulling arrow before it roars again...
If I'd only been this strong back then, they'd still be alive...
You can feel it, can't you!? The pain, the fear! Serves you right!
What the─ Where is this coming from!?
Gah! I won't let it end like this!
We won't! Godsdammit, Renda...
Made it in the nick, I see.
Are you hurt!? Don't worry, I've got you...
The lone wolf just had to do it on her own terms...
