The chieftain has bid me guide your steps to the illuminated land.
Come, the way lies downwards. Follow the path of coral and rock, and join your comrades below.
All are gathered, yes? Then I shall describe the path you mussst take.
Enter the cavern beyond, and follow the wall down, and down, and down... Once at the bottom, find a passage to the northwest, then continue west, and west, and west...
The way is not sssimple. Keep your friends within shouting distance, and do not ssstray into the deep.
Jussst before the journey's end you will find the Caliban Gap and the barrier we placed at its mouth. This obstacle will fade should you raise a hand towards it─we have made it ssso.
A most succinct explanation. We thank you for your guidance.
Right! Deeper into the depths we go!
Our guide bade us travel to the cavern floor and thence to the west...
Yet 'twould seem these twisting tunnels defy such simple instruction. Rather than rely on direction alone, I suggest we scout with care, and relay the path ahead to those who come behind.
You can either take the long way to the south along the rocks, or skip along this coral branch as Alisaie has done. I, for one, shall be following my sister's example. Ahem... <gulp>
There you are. Come on, I think I've found the tunnel we were looking for!
Here. This must be the barrier the Ondo spoke of...
...Well, that was rather more arduous than expected. I feel a sudden rush of gratitude for the smooth roads our ancestors cut through the wilderness.
'Twas a treacherous path, indeed. Now, I believe one of us needs but raise a hand to banish this next obstacle?
Forename. I elect you to do the honors!
Gone, just like that! I suppose we should head in.
Like as not, this tunnel will be just as perilous as the road we walked to get here. Let's all stay aware of our surroundings, shall we?
By the gods!
When the Ondo spoke of a city, I did not think they meant an actual city!
Then...we are seeing the same view.
The remnants in the Ondo settlement were solid, material structures, but these...
Everything here pulses with aether. 'Tis an enchantment on a monumental scale!
Forename, did you note the style of the architecture? 'Tis the same used for the remnants at the Cups and the mural's painted towers.
Look closely. Emet-Selch has not simply reclaimed these ruins...he has layered the semblance of an entire city upon them.
Gods, the magnitude of his artifice is staggering. Though it pains me to admit, we did not fully understand the feats of which an old world Ascian is capable...
It's intimidating, yes, but we have to start somewhere...
Why don't we have a closer look at that tower to the southeast? We might be able to reach it from the edge of the trench.
Look at the size of those doors... Now I know how pixies must feel.
