You wish to use the lift, yes?
I have sent your associates ahead to Logistikon Alpha, on the other side of Meryall Agronomics.
Actually...there is something I have been meaning to...
...No, never mind. It can wait. Let us attend to the matter at hand.
Oh, there you are. Having words with Master Fourchenault, by any chance?
Knowing the Forum, even the people working down here are probably kept in the dark about the true purpose of this place...
The further underground we go, the more surprises we find.
We must be close to the Central Circuit, which is where Sharlayan's greatest secrets are held...if the tomes I perused told the whole story.
On our journey here, I was filled with an inexplicable sense of elation to see vegetables other than carrots being cultivated. Why, it near brought a tear to mine eye...
The fields we passed along the way brought back memories...of Ferndale. Unfortunately, we were never blessed with such abundant crops.
I wonder what this place is actually for...
We are to wait here while our father arranges for us to use the next lift.
“Here” being Logistikon Alpha, where the atmospheric conditions of Labyrinthos are regulated.
Water is drawn from underground and dispersed as vapor, stimulating the formation of artificial clouds and rain.
By manipulating the temperature and air circulation, they are able to create the ideal environment for the growth and preservation of the biological samples kept here.
Hold on. How do you know so much about it?
Why, Father brought me here as a child.
What!? And left me behind!?
Actually, you're the one who left me behind, when you went off somewhere with Grandfather.
The night before, I'd been asking Father how clouds are made, so he decided to show me. It was fascinating─I peppered him with questions the entire time.
'Tis all too easy to take for granted the many interweaving aspects of the natural world. To grow inured to the wondrous.
But having gained an understanding of the complex mechanisms employed by the Loporrits in recreating a similar environment, I have come to view such processes in a new light.
The subterranean gardens of Labyrinthos, the lunar prison forged to contain the ancient Zodiark, the habitations built for all mankind 'neath the moon's surface... Each unique, yet undeniably similar.
'Tis no mere coincidence.
Ever since Hydaelyn unfolded to us the grim fate that awaits Etheirys, every essential resource we could spare has been delivered to Labyrinthos, in preparation for the great exodus. But that is not all...
It is also a testing ground for the technologies that will allow us to settle on distant stars.
Though the Loporrits have endeavored to make the moon inhabitable, that is not our final destination. Mankind must learn to propagate life where there is none, to thrive where all is barren.
Alas, time is not on our side.
I have arranged for you all to enter the Central Circuit. It is there that most of our preparations for the great exodus are carried out, the construction of the ark among them.
Though our plans have been made public, access remains highly restricted. You, however, will not be subject to said restrictions, and will have free rein to come and go as you please. Such was the will of the Forum, after all.
We will prove ourselves worthy of their trust. Your trust.
Then let us proceed.
