Yes, yes, I know who you are. You wish to go below?
She returns, and with swordgrass in hand?
...That you would immerse yourself in the depths is a testament to your bravery. Well done.
Lest you wonder, we will use it to prepare potions to induce paralysis. In the Naadam, we must use every means at our disposal to delay our foes.
He who inscribes his deeds upon the sacred ground shall be declared the victor. However, none may know this place until the Gharl have scattered the soil.
It matters not. We shall be swift as stallions and fierce as baras. The Steppe will be ours once more!
Your tribute is accepted. We will return to the most radiant, and you may beg a boon.
...Am I to understand you have completed your tasks?
I know not what yours was, but mine was surprisingly simple.
They bade me carry various goods and sundries from storehouse to storehouse. Alas, it was difficult to learn much with all the Buduga swarming around me...
You dove deep into the waters to harvest swordgrass? I see. That is well.
Most radiant brother Magnai, we have given you tribute, as demanded. Were we to beg leave to depart with our comrades, would you consent?
We never intended to press you into our service, and tribute offered in good faith cannot be denied. To grant you naught in return would be an affront to Father Azim.
However, the boon must be proportional to the supplications. What you ask far exceeds what you have earned.
...Then if we must remain here, would you at least permit us to learn more of your people and your ways?
Temulun Khatun taught me but a fraction, you see...
How this world born of the gods was to be their battlefield, their creations to fight in their stead.
How Azim, Father of the Dawn, he who birthed the sun, and Nhaama, Mother of the Dusk, she who birthed the moon, made the Au Ra...
Yet though these children warred for a time, eventually they laid down their arms and came to love one another. And so the gods bequeathed this world to their children, and ascended to the heavens whence they came.
Those born of the Dawn Father were called the Raen, and those born of the Dusk Mother were called the Xaela. So it was and ever after.
But I say to you, Brother Magnai─how can this be? How can Oronir be the children of Azim, if they are Xaela born of Nhaama?
...You amuse me, Doman. How you wield your ignorance as a weapon.
Very well. I bid you speak with our elders and learn the truth of this world.
...I know what you're thinking. And yes, I could probably have convinced him to let us go had I handled that differently. But then we would have learned naught for our troubles.
If there is one thing I know, it is that men of faith yearn to share it with others. And in learning more of their beliefs, we may learn more of other things─things which may prove useful in the Naadam.
When I was carrying out my tasks, I met an elder─a storyteller─named Udutai. Mayhap he can be our teacher.
