Eh? The Resistance? Damned if I know. It's not as if I'd be any use to 'em. <cough> <wheeze>
If you set store by all these tales of secret weapons, good luck to you─but I'm too old for the Masks' bedtime stories. This is our lot, and it's time we got used to it.
Ah, let me guess: come to join the fight, have you? No need to deny it, friend. You're not the first to answer the Griffin's call!
While he's lit a fire in every Ala Mhigan's heart, he's also inspired more than a few Ul'dahns to pledge themselves to the cause. And little wonder─the Garleans won't stop until we're all under the yoke!
...I see you there, goin' around askin' questions. Lookin' for the Griffin an' his lot, I'll bet.
Seems they're the talk of Little Ala Mhigo these days. Folk wonderin' what he's about, what he's got in store for the Garleans─an' what's under that mask of his, of course.
Some say he's hardly got a face, what with all the scars. Others reckon he's been marked for death by the Empire, an' that they'd send a bloody legion if they knew he was here. <snort> Your guess is as good as mine.
I suppose I should ask what you learned, but I think I already know.
...This Griffin seems to be the leader of a newly formed faction within the Resistance. The Masks. Yet despite their growing popularity, no one seems to know much about them─only that they are the most aggressively militant group to join the movement in recent memory.
Indeed, many claim their commitment to the cause of Ala Mhigan liberation is unrivaled. We can but hope their revolutionary fervor is never channeled in the direction of a primal.
Though I feel confident that this is the group which received the crystal shipments, we yet lack proof. Before taking any action, I would speak with the settlement's leader to confirm my suspicions─and mayhap enlist his help while I am about it.
Given that you and Gundobald are already acquainted, mayhap it would be best if you took the lead. Shall we?
Much as it pleases me to see you again, Forename, I cannot help but wonder if I should be worried. I hear you and yours have been asking questions...
The Griffin? Aye, I know of him, as do we all. He and his Masks have become a leading faction within the Resistance.
Though there was suspicion at first given his secretive ways, he quickly proved himself a charismatic and capable commander. Men are drawn to his passion and his vision─they truly believe that he has what it takes to lead them to victory.
Even I cannot help but admire the man for what he's accomplished....But I have not forgotten Wilred. I was blind to the danger of his ambitions...and you were not.
The Griffin will soon deliver a speech to our people at the Sunken Temple of Qarn. Go and see him with your own eyes, weigh his words with your own heart.
How convenient. 'Tis but a pity Thancred is not here to join us.
You two go on ahead. I shall stay behind and wait for him.
Has it begun already? I hear voices coming from within...
