Er, how do you know my name!? ...Is that package for me?
Er, how do you know my name!? ...Is that package for me?
Tenny sent this? He made this!? Haha, I guess he didn't forget about his mates after all.
It's funny; I just finished wrapping a gift for Tenny, too. A gift from all of us.
We wanted something with our names on it, so we pooled our pocket money and got him a bracelet. Great minds think alike, eh?
Anyway, if you're headed back to Gridania, could you take this to him? It'd mean a lot to us.
Anyway, if you're headed back to Gridania, could you take this to him? It'd mean a lot to us.
Hooray! You're back!
Did you find everyone? Did they like their presents!?
This is...
A bracelet? And look, they carved their names into it: “Momolao,” “Larkin,” “Orthuel”...and “Tenny”!
They must really miss you too. If this isn't proof of your friendship, I don't know what is!
I never thought they'd send me something─and it's a bracelet, too! Great minds think alike, eh?
I'm so glad everything worked out! Now you can enjoy the Starlight Celebration without any more worries.
Saulinne... Thank you for helping me.
I really was happy when you invited me to play before. So I hope...I mean, would you be my friend?
Hehehe! You silly!
I'm already your friend!
I want to send them something even better next year! Hmm, what should I make...
We should tell Miss Garanjy the good news! Tenny and I will be right behind you.
So not only were his handmade presents happily received, Tenny's friends sent him a thoughtful gift as well. None could ask for a better display of Starlight spirit.
You have brightened many a young face today in your role as the Saint of Nymeia. It truly warms my heart!
Still, I can't help but wonder if Tenny and his friends knew how fitting the gift of a woven bracelet is.
In certain lands, such bracelets are customarily exchanged as a symbol of friendship, as it is said the intertwining strands represent lasting bonds.
No doubt those younglings will enjoy each other's companionship for many a Starlight to come.
We came to say thank you! Thank you, Miss Garanjy. Thank you, missmister!
I'm grateful that I was able to keep my promise to my friends...and make another one along the way!
I am glad to hear it. After all, the Starlight Celebration is meant to be enjoyed with everyone we cherish, be they near or far. Now then─what say you both to receiving your gifts?
I gave those two their presents earlier, but they seem to be in search of companions...
Let's invite them to play, Tenny!
Yeah! We can all celebrate together!
A savior chosen to shield younglings from winter's wrath and provide them with every happiness this season can afford... Yet, not all gifts are within the saint's power to deliver.
The gift of friendship, for instance...
Forsooth, I can only teach them to make pretty things and encourage from afar! May their Starlights be bright and their friendship everlasting. Ho ho ho!
What did you get for Starlight?
Let's all play together!
Is she here for celebration or assassination...?
What's 'e doin' 'ere, the blithe bastard!?
