I hear you have done us the service of burying a fallen soul. Please accept our gratitude, and extend it to Isembard when next you see him.
Hm? You seek knowledge of missing Drybone inhabitants? It is true I am closer to the people than any other of the Order. I confide in them, and they in me. When they wish to speak to their keeper, Thal, I am the medium through which they do.
Should I learn anything pertinent, I will be sure to share the information with you. <sigh> I only wish Marques would be more helpful in the matter. I pray he did nothing to offend. He saw...terrible things during the Calamity... His scars run deep. Indeed, he seems to now prefer the company of the dead over the living.
While tragic, I fear such behavior ill befits the church. I received word not long ago that one of our recent visitors─a man called Thancred, I believe─took offense at his conduct. I must have words with Marques, and soon.
Thank you, Forename. A burial is no easy thing─even when the departed is a stranger. Were you able to learn aught of the missing commonfolk?
You've been keeping yourself rather busy of late, haven't you, Forename?
A pleasure, my dear Isembard. The name is Thancred, and I share a passion with you and our mutual friend here for learning what has become of these missing persons and why.
I, too, spoke with Ungust─more times than I care to count. There seems to be some truth to this notion of the commonfolk speaking their secrets only to those in service to the gods.
Prostration, prayer, penance. Abject deeds done behind closed doors, away from prying eyes. Who better to take the pious unawares than she who takes confession─the good Sister Ourcen herself?
Ourcen!? She wouldn't... She couldn't!
Even the most beautiful roses have thorns, my friend. And you would be wise to keep an eye to this rose.
Still, the lichkeeper Marques... I'd swear to the Twelve I've seen that face elsewhere before...
Sister Ourcen... It cannot be. Though, she is wont to travel to the Golden Bazaar on her own, and it is not uncommon to see her speaking to the children. But...no. It could not be she...could it?
Hmmm... <sigh> I grow weary of these suspicions. I know there is one child in particular that she is fond of. Pray seek out the boy, Forename, and see if you cannot glean something from him about Ourcen's activities.
