You have tarnished the good name of the Students. Galuf would be ashamed...
Galuf Baldesion was never one to forsake his fellow man.
Even if this nation closed every door and retreated from the world, he would have found a way to help the Scions─help every soul of this star─fight back against the coming doom.
A terrible enemy stands poised to lay waste to all we hold dear. In the face of such madness, Eorzea reached out to Sharlayan, a respected ally, in the hopes of forming a united front.
Was your curt dismissal truly the best you could offer?
Or are you so preoccupied with your “momentous duty of an age long past” that even the end of the world is unworthy of your attention?
Whence came this revelation?
From the mouth of a Forum member within fortuitous earshot.
Then it seems your findings support my own...
The reason I visited the restricted shelves was to study records of the Forum's policy-making process. To better understand the historical trends underlying their most major decisions.
At first glance, the positions of neutrality in war and the accumulation of knowledge above all else appear constant and consistent─the unchanging pillars of Sharlayan society.
And once upon a time, I might have left it at that. These days, however, I am more attuned to the subtleties of governance, and so I noticed something...odd.
From a particular point in time, the purpose of these policies shifted.
No longer was knowledge preserved for the benefit of society. Rather, society was to be gradually reshaped to ensure the preservation of knowledge.
The most conspicuous and telling change was the one which befell Labyrinthos. Once little more than an oversized storehouse, an enormous allocation of funds saw it transformed into an advanced research and archival facility.
I also discovered a fascinating account on the finances of our Dravanian colony.
The settlement attracted students from far and wide, and the connections and tuition fees thus acquired were funneled into further improvements for the archives.
Now, there is no question that our nation's progress is tied to the acquisition of wisdom. Nevertheless, the vast resources diverted for this purpose borders on the obscene.
But returning to the matter of when─our change in course appears to have been made some two hundred and seventy years ago...
The very same period when Sharlayan scholars in the hinterlands began a formal study of the aetherial sea!
You found something, did you not? And whatever it was gave rise to your oh-so-important duty...
