A good evening to you, miss, but I have no time to chat! I have to head to the Bokairo! ...Or was it the Hostelry? Bah, no time, no time!
Hm? Aye, I recognize that parcel. I delivered it to the Ruby Bazaar not long ago. What of it?
Eh? A mistake? For the Sekiseigumi, you say?
Bah, you're right! How stupid of me. Fortunately, I have yet to visit the barracks. This is for you, yes? I will take the other in exchange.
Greetings, honored madam. Will you be entering the Ruby Bazaar offices?
I'm sorry, I couldn't find him. I guess we just have to hope he realizes his mistake and returns soon...
That's it! That's the parcel! You found him!
Though, knowing our luck, Cid put the wrong papers in here...
Nope, this is it! These are the documents detailing the operation of the magitek field generators Alphinaud requested!
I can only imagine what would have happened had we sent Forename back to Doma with a parcel full of love letters. The look on Alphinaud's face when he reads the first page... On second thought, I'm a little disappointed we didn't.
Everyone's working so hard to fight for Doma's freedom, and here I am, making the same silly mistakes...
It won't happen again, Forename! And I'll keep working hard to bring you and the others useful information!
If we hear anything new, we'll contact you straightaway!
Oh, and you may be pleased to hear that we have brokered an arrangement between the company and the Confederacy. They require armaments, we provide. Discreetly, and at a reasonable price.
I'm sure Lord Lolorito was pleased to hear it.
Ahaha! Indeed he was, indeed he was.
Well, it seems our time together is at an end! Give Alphinaud and Alisaie my regards, will you?
Oh! It seems like just yesterday you were here. Our plans proceed apace. Do you have the documents?
Excellent! This looks to be exactly what we need.
Assuming our shinobi escort can see us safely inside the Moon Gates, I should have no trouble deactivating the barrier. Good, good─that is one less thing to worry about...
Should you wish for further employment, mayhap you could speak with Alisaie?
I believe she was planning to search the surrounding area for imperial patrols. If you go now, you may be able to catch her before she departs.
Alphinaud told you about my plans? And you wish to come with me? Well, far be it from me to refuse you.
If truth be told, I'm not entirely sure what I expect to find. In the wake of your failed assassination attempt, the imperials demonstrated uncharacteristic restraint. There were no public executions, and not a single village was put to the torch.
But, as I mentioned earlier, our latest intelligence does suggest a purge is imminent. For all we know, they could be out in the field even as we speak, surveilling their targets and making plans.
If so, we need to put a stop to it. Let us begin our search in the north.
All quiet...for now. Follow me to the next location.
No imperial patrols near our headquarters, then. Good. The last thing we need is a repeat of Rhalgr's Reach.
Even so, 'twould be prudent to search a little longer.
Not exactly the enemy I was worried about.  ...Damn it all. I can't just leave the carcass lying in the middle of the road.
...Next to you, I feel like a child playing at swords and sorcery. Thought mayhap it suits me better than books.
I owe much to a Miqo'te I met on my travels. He was a master of these techniques, and kindly agreed to teach me the fundamentals.
But I could never warm to common rapiers. I vastly preferred using a blade of my own creation, despite the toll it took on me. Urianger's gift was a godssend, to be honest.
...I didn't mean to imply that you should help me. This isn't the first wild beast we've had to slay to keep the people safe in your absence.
But we'll need all the help we can get when the real fighting starts...
Anyway, we're falling behind. We should split up, and try to recoup some lost time.
We've heard rumors of imperial soldiers skulking about disguised as villagers. One was supposedly spotted near the Ribbons, to the south of here. Go and see if there's anything out of the ordinary.
