This report seeks to provide an overview of the mechanism by which eikons corrupt and bind men to their will.
The phenomenon we call “corruption” refers to the alteration of the aether of the soul.
Said aether ordinarily exists in equilibrium; no one element being more prominent than another.
But when a subject is exposed to the aether of an eikon, this changes, their soul taking on the properties of the entity in question.
By way of an example, exposure to the aether of the Fiend, Sephirot, would cause a subject's aether to become aligned with the element of earth.
As a consequence, the subject would attain heightened affinity with earth-aspected magicks, as well as preternatural levels of endurance. Repeated exposure would further enhance these traits, ultimately altering the subject's very flesh.
The changes undergone by the subject are not solely attributable to elemental alignment, however. Further testing has determined that the subject's soul becomes umbrally charged, or stagnant during the process.
This stagnation of the soul has the effect of diluting the sense of self, rendering the subject vulnerable to the will of the eikon, the thoughts of whom come to consume their entire existence.
In this manner do the corrupted become worshipers of the eikon, their prayers serving to further empower the entity.
Having discerned the mechanism of eikonic corruption, my colleagues and I set out to develop a material capable of shielding one from its effects. An endeavor in which we were successful, albeit it at great cost...
In the course of testing, many of my assistants─good men and women all─fell victim to corruption. And in accordance with protocol, they were summarily put to death.
I subsequently submitted a proposal to investigate potential cures for corruption, but it was rejected─deemed “nonessential” by Lord Amon.
Though I knew it would be fruitless, I protested the decision. And for my impertinence, I have been stripped of rank and title, and will shortly be expelled from this facility.
In all likelihood, this report will be expunged from the archives. Nonetheless, I record it in the hope that one day, someone will undertake to do that which I could not, and find a cure for the victims of eikonic corruption. End recording.
So not even the Allagans were able to find a cure. Or rather, were not given the chance to do so. One cannot help but wonder what motivated Lord Amon's decision.
More importantly, this confirms that stagnation of the soul is indeed the problem─and Angelo can remedy that.
True. Yet were we simply to reanimate a tempered soul, I fear it would do naught to diminish the individual's fanatical faith. Indeed, it may well intensify it.
No, we would somehow need to suppress the primal's hold over the subject at the same time, or risk them ever remaining its thrall.
But of course─memory transference! The process has the effect of compartmentalizing memories─separating them into manageable bundles, if you will.
By adapting the technique, it may be possible to achieve selective reanimation. That is, limit the effects to only those memories that existed prior to tempering.
Through thus restoring the sense of self, we could theoretically drown out the incitements of false faith which had come to dominate the individual's thoughts.
I see... The theory seems sound. And our experience treating the Light-corrupted would help us to identify suitable memories for reanimation.
But are you confident you can adapt memory transference as required? I seem to recall your attempts to do so while trying to bring us home culminated in literal bloodletting.
They did, you are right. Despite my best efforts, I could not recreate the mechanism. And I concede that the rather clumsy compromise I reached would not provide the basis for a cure.
Then perhaps it's better that we consider another approach.
Your doubts are understandable, but this time I believe we have reason to be confident.
You see, nodes such as this were built with the ability to simulate magicks.
Which leads me to believe that it may be capable of performing simulations of the transference technique. If so, we would be able to conduct years' worth of tests within the space of a few days.
Hm. In theory, it would be no different from how we identified the password.
But it'll take more calculating power. A lot more. I honestly couldn't say whether our equipment would be up to the task.
Tell me, Cid. Why do you suppose Owen locked his report behind a password?
To keep it from prying eyes, of course. Why else?
...Wait. A password that could be guessed by anyone with leisure and a dictionary wouldn't keep it from a person minded to look.
No, he wanted his report to be seen...by those who strive for freedom.
Not unlike the members of a certain distinguished engineering collective. I believe their motto was “Freedom through Technology,” or some such.
You two─round up as many magitek terminals as you can find and bring them to the workshop.
Right away, Chief!
Things are about to get very busy. Lucky we have you to help, eh?
Right, while G'raha Tia and I configure the terminals, I want the rest of you to procure supplies.
Namely, ceruleum to fuel the terminals and ice shards to keep them cool. The more we have of both, the better.
Leave the ice shards to me. I'll round up some adventurers and go on a gathering spree.
In that case, I'll trust Forename and Alisaie with the ceruleum. Here's a promissory note for each of you.
Take them to the Skysteel Manufactory in Ishgard and the Ceruleum Processing Plant in Thanalan. The people there will give you what we need.
Yours is a well-known face in the Holy See, I believe? If it's all the same to you, I'll head to Thanalan.
