She's back from the dead to seek her revenge!
It can't be! She couldn't have survived!
What did I... Wh-What did I do?
As if you don't know!
Good people of Namai─be at ease, I pray you! You have naught to fear!
My lord, forgive me but─what is that monster doing here!? They told us she was dead!
I too was surprised to learn of her survival.
More even than you, I would hazard. 'Twas I who cut her down. I who left her to her fate.
But it would seem the kami had other plans. By some miracle, both she and Gosetsu were spared when the keep collapsed─though Yotsuyu's preservation came at the cost of her memory.
You're saying she's forgotten? Forgotten everything she's done!?
Lies! Lies, my lord! She would say anything to escape punishment!
What does it matter!? We have not forgotten her crimes! And we demand justice! I beg of you, Lord Hien, draw your blade and rid us of this canker!
What I saw, then. It's all true.
I'm sorry! I'm so, so sorry...
You're “sorry”!? And what, we're supposed to forgive you?
Here, there's no need to cry.
Can't you see how scared she is? How can you be scared of her? She's not the same.
Until such time as her memories return, this woman shall be known as “Tsuyu,” and treated as a citizen of Doma.
I will, however, see that she is watched at all times. Rest assured that there will be no more unannounced visits to the village. As your lord, I ask that you leave her fate in my hands, and suffer her to live. For now.
Please, Isse...
All right. I'll keep my peace.
As long as you're happy. That's all that matters.
<sigh> That...would have been better avoided. But at least it did not end in bloodshed. And judging by Tsuyu's reaction, she remains oblivious to the events of her former life. This was no escape attempt.
Nay, it seems it was an offhand request of Gosetsu's which brought her to Namai. She came in search of a persimmon.
Hah! And they say fruit is good for the health... I do hope Gosetsu finds the taste to his liking.
Well, we have certainly taken the long way around, but let us continue on to Castrum Fluminis and our meeting with the ambassador. Alphinaud and Alisaie should still be there, conducting their search.
It seems our imperial guests have already arrived. 'Tis time to meet with the ambassador...
What a pleasure it is to see you once more, Lord Hien. Not to mention my dear sister.
A pleasure to see you too, Ambassador. Forgive us our late arrival.
You have our people aboard the airship?
Exactly as agreed. We would leave you in no doubt as to the purity of our intentions. I daresay it was the selfsame spirit of cooperation which prompted you to bring Yotsuyu here today.
Indeed. Before excluding her from the exchange, I thought it only fair that you see her condition for yourself. Physically, she is in fine health, but her mind is unchanged.
So I see.
But all need not necessarily be lost. In anticipation of this tragic turn of events, I took the liberty of inviting some special guests...
