Hey, you! Stop! If you're thinking of taking to sea─don't!
What has happened?
We were out working our nets when a light suddenly shot up over Bhaflau Isle with a boom!
A massive fiend then took to the skies.
Another blasphemy, we feared─but we didn't linger to find out.
Did you see where it was headed?
Can't say for sure, but it looked like it was northward bound.
I see... Our thanks for the warning, and do not let us keep you.
Bhaflau Isle is connected to Alzadaal's Legacy. This cannot be a coincidence.
In response to Cagnazzo's defeat, they have come for our gate...
So it seems. I would ascertain the situation at the vault, but the fiend must be dealt with ere people come to harm.
I shall assume my dragon form and seek it out at once.
Wait.
You heard the fisherman. A blasphemy, they called it.
If another flying creature were sighted now, others will assume the worst, and panic will spread. This is not the way.
...You are right, Estinien.
I will gather my soldiers and search the isle for casualties.
As you wish, the fiend is yours.
...You are right, Estinien.
I will gather my soldiers and search the isle for casualties.
The fiend, I leave to you.
...You are right, Estinien.
I will gather my soldiers and search the isle for casualties.
The fiend, I leave to you.
The hunt will go more swiftly with help. Zero, might I prevail upon you to accompany her?
...Very well.
Then Estinien and I will make for Alzadaal's Legacy and secure the gate.
Stay on your guard. The enemy is clever and will have anticipated our response.
Be safe, my friends, and may the Sisters guide your steps.
We know the fiend was headed north...
But that still leaves a lot of ground for us few to cover.
We need a way to conduct our search more efficiently. Do you have any ideas?
In other words, we seek help from the locals? If you think it best, then very well.
So. Where to, then?
The Great Work and the encampment at the Hamsa Hatchery? If both places are to the north, then the people there may indeed have seen something.
Very well, I will head to the Great Work, and leave the encampment to you.
Ah, Forename. Is this about the happenings at the Bhaflau remnants?
These fishermen saw a fiend emerge from the Bhaflau remnants before heading north, you say?
I saw what I thought was a ball of flame flung from the explosion, but now I wonder...
It flew north, in the direction of Khadga. If it is in fact a fiend, then we have trouble on our hands. We must remain vigilant.
In case you're unfamiliar, Khadga is the massive rock formation that juts out over the water. That's where the ball of flame flew.
Saw the light over at the Bhaflau remnants too, did you? We've sent scouts to investigate, but they've yet to report back.
We will continue to keep watch here, but if you learn anything, be sure to let us know.
Ever since that explosion, we've seen nothing else unusual come from the waters, but there's no telling what our scouts may report.
I presume you've come to investigate the explosion at the Bhaflau remnants as well.
We've yet to ascertain precisely what happened. Is there any information you can share with us?
A fiend emerged from the explosion and flew towards Khadga!? By the Sisters! Had I learned of this sooner─never mind. There is no time to waste!
The stone formation there to the north is known as Khadga. A most frightful ball of flame was seen hurtling in its direction not long ago.
There's been no discernable change in the waters off the coast since the explosion. That our scouts have yet to report back is a growing cause for concern, though...
Confound it. We were so concerned with the explosion that we failed to recognize that the threat had not yet passed!
We must alert command at once and instruct the people to seek shelter.
What? You mean to go there to investigate!?
But there is no telling what manner of enemy this may be!
Then again...you are more than capable of defending yourself... As you wish. We will leave this in your hands.
The Giantsgall Grounds are situated at the base of Khadga. I myself am not familiar with the mountain paths, but the quarry workers are bound to know many.
Qetanur, for instance─he has worked there the longest. Go well, my friend, and may the Sisters keep you.
If someone can tell you how to scale Khadga, it will be Qetanur. Seek him out at the Giantsgall Grounds.
