Man fallen off the mast! We need help!
Get him belowdecks first!
Quickly, before he's washed overboard!
Come, we should lend what aid we can.
I have not seen the ocean rage with such fury before or since.
The heaving waves tossed our ship about like a toy, sending sailors tumbling...
The dauntless Alisaie, quick to the rescue, was almost lost to the sea herself.
Meanwhile, our champion rushed to deploy the vessel's magical defenses, and thereby shield us from the lightning.
What an extraordinary life she must lead to be able to operate such a device with practiced ease.
Wuk Lamat, too, threw herself into the rescue efforts, though one might have mistaken her for another soul in distress.
By the time the unruly seas had calmed, our strength was all but spent, and we had yet to even glimpse the shores of Tural.
In retrospect, of course, that battle against the storm would prove a fitting prelude to the coming contest for the throne.
Morning. Joining us for some fresh air?
Seems my belly has settled along with the weather, but I'll feel much better once we're on solid ground.
Ugh, can't be much farther now...can it?
Seabirds.
Land must be near. You need only hold out a while longer.
For a dark moment, I thought the ocean might swallow us. Glad to have my pessimism proven wrong.
In other good news, I examined the sailor who took a fall, and he's faring well. I'm sure he'll make a full recovery.
Good news indeed. If all's well, then we needn't delay in launching the landing boat.
Ships have to lower anchor some way from shore. Too close, and they risk having their underbellies ripped open by the reefs that crowd Tuliyollal's coasts. Come.
Thanks for bringing us all this way!
Hah, we only did what we were paid to do! Couldn't hardly set ye adrift halfway!
If anythin', it should be us thankin' you for helpin' us through that beast of a storm!
As a matter o' fact, everyone's startin' to fancy yer chances in the contest. At this rate, we won't be able to lay wagers no more!
Then I'd better not let you down!
Ulp... Easy, stomach. Easy.
We're the last to board. If there's nothing left to say, then let's shove off, shall we?
Ahh! Blue seas, clear skies, and boundless possibilities... I daresay our destination will soon be in sight.
Enjoying yourself for a change?
There, look my friends! Behold the scene of our next great adventure!
At last, we are come to the land you call the “New World.” To my home, Tural!
Gods... I've seen cities with an impressive mix of cultures, but this is something else!
Is that a...? No. I've never seen Vanu feathers in that color before.
You'll find much here you never knew existed! There may be a sea route now, but visitors to Tuliyollal are still few and far between.
And as we don't build seafaring ships, only a handful of Turali ever venture abroad.
Mamool Ja sellswords, mostly. Those willing to play the fool sail with Lominsan merchants to secure employment in Eorzea.
I suppose that makes us a rare sight in your country.
Rare and currently undocumented. Were there some forms we should fill out, or...?
Forms? Did you forget who you're traveling with?
