Help! Somebody help!
Hippogryphs! Hippogryphs on the rampage! A giant flock of 'em! Please, we need help!
I could do with a little rampage myself.
What!? Now wait just a─
Here we go again...
I will join the fray when I've finished my tea.
Thus did the avatar of destruction descend, and in her wake leave naught but tears and ash...
And then, one day, an all but forgotten dream from my youth stood before me, in the flesh.
So it was that a new adventure began...
The memory of a dying world's end, night after night... And I thought it but a tired old dream.
I say... I knew that securing the palace would provide Your Radiance with depressingly little sport─but that you should fall asleep out of boredom!?
Splendid! Truly splendid! And my own preparations, you will be pleased to hear, proceed apace.
Oh yes, they proceed very well indeed. Frighteningly so. And we owe it not least of all to this singularly useful body I chanced to find.
With the Populares now all but destroyed, it will be the simplest of tasks to discredit their groundless assertions that I met with a grisly end.
And as the very-much-alive lord of House Brutus, I have a vast fortune at my disposal.
Ahhh, money, money, money! The great motivator! There is simply no better way to move men─and expedite plans─than with its alluring glint, would you not agree?
But wait...! Were we not acquainted, you and...“I”?
Should our familiarity cause you distress, I beg your forgiveness.
...What did you say your name was?
Ahhh, a dagger through my heart! That my deepest desire should forever remain unfulfilled! To live unrecognized! To die forgotten!
So it goes. Whatever this flesh may have been before, it serves only as a vessel now.
And I, faithful Fandaniel, labor only to advance my lord's ambitions.
Speaking of which, with the palace in our hands, we may now proceed with the next phase of the plan.
But how very odd... Despite all our havoc wreaking, old Elidibus did not deign to appear. Dare I hope...?
That the last of the unsundered...is gone?
Imagine it! Bound no more by the shackles of moldering memories─of damnable duty! Free at last to live for the moment!
Your Radiance. But give the word, and I shall go forth and prepare for you your hunting ground.
That which awaited was a fell beast.
Ferocious. Ravenous. Remorseless.
...Do as you will.
It has been too, too long, my friend...and insufferably dull in your absence.
When you return to me, you will share everything. Every blow will be a story unto itself. Every triumph. Every kill.
Rest assured we shall have a fitting stage for our reunion.
Oh, yes. To reprise that transcendent moment, I will set this world ablaze. And we shall dance before the pyre.
The beast shall kindle the flames of the apocalypse.
Into its domain shall the hero set forth, for the final chapter in the tale of this star.
Ah, you're back.
Hm...
Tell me, Forename. Do you think I was...excessively familiar earlier? In my tone and mannerism?
I thought it better to be familiar than formal if we are to be comrades. But now I worry that it may have detracted from the gratitude and respect I harbor for everyone.
Perhaps we might consider it a nod to my regrettably less-than-humble beginnings...? Yes! Yes, that will do!
<sigh> Being free to live as one pleases is not without its challenges... In a way, it was easier when I had a mission that consumed my every waking moment. It provided me with a focus, a constant push in a singular direction.
By the way, was casting spells always so draining? I had quite forgotten what it was like to do it without the tower. I've rarely felt so exhausted. Or hungry.
Yet if all I did was bend the bow, I would be of limited use to you on your adventures. So I shall persevere.
Whoever I might have been before, I am now a Scion─and an inexperienced Scion at that. A green initiate, eager to learn how best to contribute to the cause...
...That he might follow in the footsteps of his inspiration!
Hehe, everyone likes the garments I prepared for them! The time I spent polishing my skills wasn't in vain!
In case you're wondering, G'raha Tia's is an outfit suited for traveling, while his weapon uses a piece of the Crystal Tower as the focus. Brilliant, right?
Now, I know we probably shouldn't go around chipping bits off Allagan relics, but it was just one little piece!
I suppose we ought to take stock of the situation. By forestalling the Eighth Umbral Calamity, we have unwritten history. The future now lies beyond my ken.
None can say what awaits, but so long as we stand together, I doubt not but that we can overcome all trials. We have always done so, have we not?
Do you mean since I reawakened in this body? The hunger being par for the course, I have no complaints. All appears to be well.
Though my memories straddle the lives I have lived, there are no contradicting fragments which cause me confusion.
Yet by the same token, 'tis a strange feeling to be possessed of my young body again. Even accounting for the crystallization, I do not recall ever being so light and spry.
As for my soul, Y'shtola assures me it is similar to yours, Forename. That is to say it is somewhat denser than others, but otherwise normal.
On the face of it, it appears to make sense, but I couldn't help but consider the differences between your circumstance and mine.
You, of course, merged with Ardbert. And as similar as your souls may have been, the fact is you were different people. Thus did your soul gain in density.
How you were able to merge is another matter. Given what we know of the soul, that you possessed distinct memories should have rendered the process more complicated. Though I but theorize, perhaps your strong and shared desire to do so made it possible.
In contrast, I simply merged with myself. Whatever additional experiences the older me may have had, my fundamental existence remained unchanged. Mind you, that's not to say that I hadn't improved! Far from it!
At any rate, when our souls combined, it shouldn't have been a process of augmentation, but rather...shall we say, attunement. It seems somewhat strange that my soul has become denser.
Or could this be the result of having undergone another Rejoining? If so, it would serve as proof of a future that many fought and died to prevent. Lest we forget, my friend. Lest we forget...
Well, now... I have my suspicions as to what this is about, but would you be so good as to confirm them for me?
Aye, just as I thought. They went ahead with it after all.
The artisans of the Mean had come to me with a proposal, you see. In celebration of the night's return, they asked how I wished to be commemorated: on a coin, or as an automaton.
Neither, I replied...for all the good it did. They knew I would be embarrassed─it makes no difference what name they give it. Yet still they did it...
A right stubborn lot, they are...as befits the people of the Crystarium. They shall be just fine without me, and Lyna may rest assured I do not worry for them.
Nevertheless, I shall never cease to pray for their happiness.
No longer am I a leader of a nation. Whatever power and influence I may have wielded, I left behind as surely as I left my body.
But everything I have ever felt and experienced... All of these things and more I have brought with me─you have brought for me.
And I shall carry them close to my heart always, unto the end of my days.
As you know, in Seeker of the Sun culture, the title tia indicates a male who does not preside over territory. In regards to this, Alphinaud came to me with a consultation.
The Crystarium may not be a territory in the traditional sense, he said, but our friend governed it with great leadership nonetheless. As such, would it not be inappropriate to call him “Tia”?
As it is by no means disrespectful to omit the title, I told Alphinaud that he is free to do so if he wishes. But I for one intend to call him by his full name. At least until he has decided what he wants for himself in his new life.
Though only a short time has passed in the Source, for me it has been several long years.
'Tis passing strange to see how little has changed here in the Rising Stones. Sometimes I can't help but feel as if I'm dreaming.
Then I see the equipment Tataru prepared for us, and it helps to bring me back to reality. Ryne continues her fight in the First, and I must resume my own here.
By thine account, the Fourteenth seat of the Convocation was known as Azem. At the title's distinctly familiar ring, mine imagination could not fail but run wild.
From Azeyma, the Warden, in Eorzea to Azim, the Dawn Father, in the Far East, in nigh every corner of Hydaelyn do those deities revered as personifications of the sun share like names.
Could they all perhaps trace their origin to the Fourteenth seat, I did muse. Though it may ne'er be proven or otherwise, such a theory, I do believe, lieth firmly within the realm of possibility.
Thanks to your reports, I had known that all was well in the Source, but there is no relief like seeing our comrades again with my own eyes.
If possible, I should like to thank Estinien in person for the help he lent us while we were away, but it seems he has not been heard from of late. Such is his way...
Well, until such time as we meet again, I shall ever pray for his well-being, and take the absence of tidings as a good sign. As I do with our friends in the First.
While things are quiet, I think I'll move my body around some more. Need to get it used to the new tricks I learned in the First.
To that end, I'll round up Hoary and his crew for a spot of sparring. Oh, and G'raha too. In my capacity as his senior, I'm obligated to train him as well, heh heh heh...
We've been receivin' some worryin' intelligence on the Empire, but with the place in a shambles as it is, it's takin' longer'n usual to verify the facts. I suggest ye rest up in the meantime.
If you are looking for Isildaure and Alianne, they're off to Doma to visit Homei. In his entire time with us, I don't think I've ever seen Isildaure so alive as when he set out.
Not only have the Archons returned to us, but a capable new comrade has joined the fold besides! Their presence shall inspire us to ever greater heights!
Hear, hear, Brother! If G'raha Tia is skilled in all forms of combat as they say, we must train hard if we are to keep up!
