Hmmm...? Could you come back another time? I just woke up, and I'm not exactly in the mood for idle chitchat.
Hmmm...? Could you come back another time? I just woke up, and I'm not exactly in the mood for idle chitchat.
Well, that's one way to avoid the panic, I suppose...
Pardon our intrusion. You may not have noticed, but a great danger has come to Thavnair. I encourage you to stay alert, and prepare to flee the city should the situation turn dire.
But before we leave you in peace...pray allow us to ask a question or two. Did you know a local merchant named Khalzahl? If so, did you notice anything unusual about him recently?
Khalzahl? Aye, I know him. In fact, we spoke just the other day.
Like many others, his business was doing poorly. Still, it seemed as though he'd managed to turn things around, thanks to a generous order from Ruveydah Fibers. Why, he was practically dancing in the streets.
I haven't spoken with him since, but I assume it all went well. Djinabaha might be able to tell you more, though. As I recall, he was the one who brokered the arrangement.
Djinabaha at Ruveydah Fibers... This sounds promising.
I must've been working myself too hard... I only intended to take a short nap, but when I woke up, it was already sunset. Come to think of it, hasn't the sky been red rather longer than usual?
From what we've heard, our man Khalzahl was truly at wits' end.
And it all came to a head at the meyhane... Perhaps his arrangement with Ruveydah Fibers did not go according to plan? I expect this Djinabaha can tell us more.
If I am not mistaken, these stairs lead to Dharma.
It is...quite the sight, the red sky above.
During the Final Days of yore, the heavens burned and the stars fell. Creation magicks run amok─that was my assumption when I saw Amaurot.
Perhaps the ancients believed the same─that the terror of a single powerful individual was the cause of their calamity.
And yet, those selfsame horrors now manifest themselves before our eyes. What could it be that sets the heavens aflame and turns ordinary men into beasts?
They're farming silkworms... This must be Ruveydah Fibers, where we should find Djinabaha.
