By what right does a fledgling adventurer presume to address Parsemontret, master of the markets?
You think you can stroll in here, bold as you please, and demand my hard-earned knowledge? Hah! A merchant does naught for naught, especially when dealing with would-be heroes.
If, on the other hand, you had some tasty “morsel” to curry my favor, then I might reconsider your request.
Come now, this whole encounter reeks of Miounne's handiwork─and more specifically her baking. Don't look so surprised, lass─I smelled that eel pie of yours a malm away. Hand it over!
Mmm, that flaky crust...just divine. Very well, I am a man of my word. Pay close attention, for I shall only explain this once.
The aspiring adventurer need look no further than the Rosewood and Ebony Stalls. Both are but a short stroll from where we stand.
If you mean to do battle, you'd best be prepared with a quality set of weapons and armor.
Such goods are the province of the Rosewood Stalls, directly south of here. You will be pleased to learn that the merchants of Gridania are exceedingly particular when it comes to craftsmanship, so you needn't fear defective straps and the like.
If it is potions and paraphernalia you seek, head north to the Ebony Stalls.
The shelves there are lavishly stocked by widely traveled Ul'dahn merchants, and I may truly say that I have seen things amongst their myriad wares that I scarce knew existed.
Do you follow me thus far? The first step in any purchase is to select the stalls that meet your needs. Then you may concern yourself with price and profit.
There is little more I can teach you with mere words. Go, peruse the stalls, and see for yourself what wares they offer. There is no substitute for firsthand experience, after all, and I am weary of talking...unless you have another eel pie?
The conquering hero returns. You have completed my little tasks, I trust?
The three locations you visited will feature prominently in your life as an adventurer─it is best you grow familiar with them as soon as possible.
And you took the time to listen to the woes of the citizenry? I cannot emphasize enough how important it is to lend your talents to one and all, no matter how trivial the matter may seem.
I am thankful that you are an obliging sort, Sukiko. It is adventurers like you who will win the hearts of the locals and pave the way for those who follow. I pray Gridania can rely on your aid in its struggles to come.
Forename, have you visited the Bannock on your wanderings?
It is a training ground found just outside the city where the soldiers of the Order of the Twin Adder are drilled in swordplay and other martial matters.
I mention this because an acquaintance of mine─a gentleman by the name of Galfrid─is an instructor there, and I think you may be of use to him. Go and introduce yourself, and find out if there is anything you can do to help.
Mind you do not stray far from the path─the Twelveswood is no place for merry strolls through the underbrush.
