Ah, you've come.
Heh heh, Wuk Lamat wins again!
Looks like everyone is here now, so...
Greetings, friend! Are you Gurfurlur?
No, I am not. The High Luminary did, however, task me with providing a lesson on sepulchres to those who came in search of him.
Oh, so we were meant to find our way here after all. Are you to tell us who is buried here?
No one is “buried” here in the sense you mean. When a body has served its purpose, we consign it to the flames, then scatter its ashes across the peaks.
Moreover, we do not conceive of death as others do. For us, a person does not die when their heart ceases to beat, but only when they are no longer borne in the hearts of all who know them.
This is why we build our sepulchres before age or mishap claims us─that we might etch ourselves into the living chronicle for all eternity.
This grave belongs to a good friend. His mortal vessel ended its journey some years ago, but he lives within me, even now.
Up there stands my own sepulchre.
As long as it exists, so too will I. I will endure in the hearts of those who read my grave glyphs, in the same manner my friend does in mine.
Has it always been thus for your people? This conception of existence and death?
Continue along this path to the Indelible Passage. Behold the history upon its walls, and you may find the answers to your questions.
Then that's what we'll do. Your traditions are fascinating, and I'd love to know more!
I thank you for allowing me to share them, for in doing so will I remain in your hearts also.
Go now to the Indelible Passage. In its murals is the history of my people laid bare.
Look at these splendid murals! They appear to depict four different scenes...
I get the feeling they were expecting us...
I've never spoken with a Yok Huy before, and had no idea they held such a philosophy on life and death.
To not only be remembered, but to live on inside the hearts of others...
If it's possible, then Grandfather surely lives on inside mine. 'Tis a comforting thought.
