Under Inquisitor Guillaime's watchful gaze, unprecedented numbers of heretics have been unmasked and brought to justice.
They say he goes days without sleep, so great is his devotion. Blessed are we to have such a goodly, righteous man to protect us.
The Holy See has decreed that the inquisitors are the arbiters of Halone's will. They are to be afforded every courtesy and the utmost respect.
... <shiver>
In case you have yet to notice, my attire is ill-suited to this climate.
I realized it soon after our arrival, but paid it no mind as I had hoped we might find the Enterprise far faster. Instead, we've wasted far too much time meddling in local affairs.
Never mind. Our journey is almost at an end. All that remains is to deal with this irksome inquisitor. Cid tells me you have been busy making inquiries, yes?
...Hm. It should come as no surprise that he is held in high regard. Even so, I am beginning to suspect he has other reasons for hindering us now.
Let us more closely review the testimonials you obtained, Forename. Mayhap they will provide insight into Inquisitor Guillaime's motivations.
Something troubles me about that wounded knight's account. He claims he fell chasing a figure in the darkness that he saw outside the eastern gate, yes? But the main road leads to the southwestern gate.
Since we've arrived in Whitebrim Front, I've seen no travelers arrive by the eastern gate. Moreover, he said he glimpsed a “silhouette illuminated by the light of the city,” which would imply that the inquisitor came from north of the eastern gate, not south.But it cannot be so─that way lies naught but a deep chasm.
Assuming Ser Joellaut is not misremembering, the inquisitor's behavior that night makes absolutely no sense, at least to me. Mayhap retracing his steps will shed light on this mystery.
You found something, didn't you? Well, don't keep me waiting in suspense. Let's see it.
Hmmm... Given the contents of this encyclical, I believe you have just made the acquaintance of the real Inquisitor Guillaime.
Newly come to Coerthas and murdered on the day of his arrival... Yes, it would have been a simple thing to assume his identity, for even if he were to behave oddly, who would dare question the wisdom of a papal appointment?
Still, while this is incontrovertible proof that the inquisitor is an impostor, we have yet to discern his true identity, or why he has decided to oppose us.
We must proceed quickly, Forename, before he learns that his deception has been discovered!
Since Lord Drillemont has already been turned against us, I fear that this encyclical alone will not serve to convince him of our claims.
But what might persuade a man so quick to disregard the endorsements of two High Houses?
The cook did say that the lord listens to and respects the opinions of his knights. If a certain knight were to provide testimony that supports our claim...
Yes, mayhap that is the only way left to us. Confront Ser Joellaut with the evidence you discovered and see if it helps him to recall the truth of that night.
As a man of faith, he may find it difficult to cope with such a horrifying revelation. Nevertheless, we must do everything within our power to secure the Enterprise.
Oh, you have returned. Is there something else you wanted to ask?
The inquisitor is an impostor? Don't be preposterous, that could not possibly be true!
He is a paragon of virtue, a dedicated servant of the Fury! You would have me believe that is all a lie!?
If you are so certain that your ludicrous story is true, then go and speak with Ser Prunilla! She was at the eastern gate that night, and she helped the inquisitor carry me here. But I will never speak against the man who saved my life!
