Yes, may I assist you with some matter?
Oh? But this is the equipment I left with the soldiers of the Bannock...
Fled at the first sign of danger, you say? I see... Well, all is not lost: it appears the recruit managed to complete the surveying assignment. The records are actually quite detailed.
With the changes wrought by the Calamity, I thought it wise to send the Order of the Twin Adder on a number of expeditions to map the region's topography. As fortune would have it, the officers saw these tasks as an excellent opportunity to train inexperienced soldiers.
We can no longer rely on our past knowledge of the Twelveswood. If we are to survive these troubled times, we must reacquaint ourselves with our surroundings, that we may better discern the threats we face. Stay vigilant, adventurer.
I hesitate to make such a dangerous request, but might you assist us in thinning the number of anoles on Naked Rock?
In our efforts to commune with the elementals, we conjurers often find ourselves in the area. Of late, however, our meditations have all too frequently been interrupted by unprovoked anole attacks. Truly, the beasts grow more aggressive by the day.
Their numbers have continued to grow since the advent of the Seventh Umbral Era, you see, forcing packs of the scalekin to come down from the mountains in search of food. If you could slay a handful of the beasts, that should lessen their need to hunt and also serve as a warning to the anoles to remain within their territory.
But I am afraid you must do more than thin the existing population. If we are to truly break this spiraling growth, then we must also target their future offspring. Bring me one of their eggs, and you will have played your part in returning balance to this area of the forest.
Ah, you have returned. Now might my brothers and sisters continue their meditations undisturbed. You have my thanks.
As for the egg, may I ask you to deliver it to Tsubh Khamazom at the Bannock?
Anole eggs are both large and filled with nutrients─the perfect meal for a soldier. She will be more than a little pleased to see you, I should imagine.
