Offering to help? That's very kind, but I should be able to organize the rest of the documents by myself.
It's mostly lists of the things we'll need once we arrive on the moon, and then whichever star we choose as our new home. My duties largely concern the maintenance of living conditions, so I'll be a lot busier after we depart.
I hear that our lunar collaborators have come down to assist in our efforts. I'm looking forward to finally meeting them in person, after having communicated with them in such a limited capacity thus far.
To be perfectly honest, I've not even the slightest idea what they look like! I do hope they're not enormous, looming giants... Why, I would much prefer something small and fluffy, like that behatted rabbit that ran by...
Come to think of it, rabbits don't normally wear hats, do they? Or run on their back paws? Hmm... Perhaps it was an escaped sample.
'Twould appear the Loporrits have infiltrated Sharlayan's most heavily guarded facility. How, I know not.
Hum hum-hummm～♪What joy to sample the delights of Etheirys!
How marvelous it is to see you again! You'll be pleased to hear I've learned much since our fascinating discussion at the Carrotorium.
It's all thanks to Urianger, you see. He's taught me the finer points of cooking, which, despite my name, I knew very little about. So many dishes, so many hard-to-pronounce words!
Actually, I was rather hoping he'd show me how to bake an Archon loaf. They're quite popular, I hear, though it doesn't sound like it contains any flavor to speak of. Still, if that's the sort of thing your kind enjoys, I shall make enough to last the whole journey!
Crikey! I wasn't expecting to see you here, Forename!
I'm sorry I didn't have a chance to say good-bye. And for, uh, having those other Loporrits attack you. Terrible misunderstanding, that.
Not to worry, though, as all have since recovered from the rather savage beating you administered. They bear you no ill will! Well, perhaps a little, on account of the savagery, but time heals all wounds! Most, anyway.
Fancy meeting you here, Forename!
Our friends in the Forum brought us to see their teeny-tiny toy boat, which was quite impressive considering they didn't use any creation magicks.
What we're really interested in is Etheirys itself, though we now find ourselves in a sort of funny, underground, miniaturized version of it.
We were hoping the Forum would give us a guided tour, but it appears they're rather preoccupied. Honestly! All that time to prepare, and they're still not ready!
I suppose we'll just have to show ourselves around. Or at least, that's what we were planning to do until we chanced upon Urianger and your good self!
Since you're both dawdling about, engaging in idle chitchat, perhaps you could show us a few points of interest! Won't that be fun?
If you're too busy to show us the sights, we'll find other ways to keep ourselves amused, don't you worry.
A tour of Labyrinthos? Hmm... An unexpected, yet prudent suggestion...
Given the similarities betwixt this artificial environment and Bestways Burrow, 'twould be in our best interests to have the Loporrits acquaint themselves with those conditions deemed optimal by their Sharlayan collaborators.
I fear, however, that continued reliance upon my limited knowledge would risk narrowing, rather than broadening, their perspectives. Mayhap thou art better suited to lead this venture?
What a marvelous idea! Might we begin with that great, big wotsit over yonder?
Ah, yes. The wotsit. I shall leave its explanation to Forename. <chuckle>
The Loporrits' technical expertise doth far outstrip our own. We would be wise to allow them to form their own conclusions as to the function of the various apparatus, rather than offer uninformed suppositions of our own.
Unless, that is, unbeknownst to me, thou art possessed of surpassing knowledge concerning the construction and operation of advanced Sharlayan─ahem─wotsits?
Considering Singingway and Growingway's specialties, I expect them to pay full attention to your explanations, which I am sure will be most informative!
My word! What magnificent architecture! Such immaculate curvature!
I'll have to make several adjustments to my work if I'm to match this degree of craftsmanship! I shall leave no corner unrounded!
This is all very intriguing, I'm sure, but where are the food preparation stations? The, uh...what was your word for it...kitchens?
That reminds me─ Puddingway, our newly appointed chief of pudding research (a discipline he himself founded after sampling Urianger's delights), has gone in search of Etheirys's ultimate sweet treat. Well, provided it's a pudding, as that's all he ever talks about these days. Have you seen him?
Goodness me! To build something so large without creation magicks...is positively stupendous!
Perhaps you could direct our attention to its most important features?
Splendid! The perfect spot from which to view this astonishing apparatus!
