I waited, and you did not come. Then the Myssstel came, but his visits did not continue...
I am truly sorry, Paushs Ooan─things did not proceed as planned. Is there aught we can do for you by way of an apology?
Hmmm... Perhapsss... “Where the Dry Return,” a cavern to the north, is home to giant crabs. We do not fear the crab, for we are the swifter ssswimmers.
But now there is no water. We run, and they ssscuttle close behind, snipping and sssnapping with their claws. There are too many of them. Too many...
Ah, I believe I can be of assistance there.
And what of you, Forename? If you've not found a task, you are most welcome to join me. Indeed, I should appreciate the company. “Where the Dry Return” has a rather ominous ring to it...
You could crack their shells? You must be ssstronger than you look...
I see you've reached your quota first again. I shall never be your equal in such tasks...
Still, I would say we have reduced the local crab population to a far less threatening number.
My thanks─to both of you. You mussst have a reward...
Nay, Paushs Ooan, this was to be a part of my apology to you, remember? Besides which, the lack of water is our doing, for which we must also make amends.
Might I convince you to tell us something about your village, instead? I would very much like to learn more of you and your people.
...Very well. Before the Flood came, it is said that our ancestral home was found in the seas to the sssouth. It was utterly destroyed by the Light.
Only those who were out hunting sssurvived. They swam, aimless and lossst, until they spied buildings here on the ocean floor.
Strange buildings they were, and long had they ssstood under the water. Yet somehow they had been ssspared the scars of time and current...
These ssstructures provided shelter for my people─protection from the Tempest's turbulent waters and the predators which hunted within them. Their very existence ssseemed a miracle.
The first sssettlers pondered their good fortune. It was clear that the race who had built sssuch wonders had guided their course. And from this did they discern the truth...
...That the ancients had chosen us to ssserve as caretakers of their eternal sssanctuary, until sssuch time as they returned.
Thus, if it is judged that your coming─and this great vanishing of water─was by the ancients' design, you will find warm welcome here.
A truly astonishing history. Yet I cannot help but wonder, how will the significance─or otherwise─of our arrival be decided?
The ancients have blessed us with protection and prosperity. If your presence serves to bring us the sssame, there will be no doubt in the matter.
...Then it would seem our earlier decision was the correct one.
We thank you for the lesson, Paushs Ooan, and will continue to do all we can to assist your people. Should you desire our help with any other trouble, pray do not hesitate to ask.
We should return to the task at hand. Only...do try not to overexert yourself, my friend. The risk far outweighs the gain.
...Ah, Forename. Have you learned aught of note?
Fascinating...and precisely the sort of information I was hoping to hear.
In fact, if you have a moment, I'd like to borrow your eyes to confirm a theory I've been working on. Come.
Now, there are two tasks I would have you perform.
The first requires you to inspect the buildings which surround the Ondo settlement, and note their most distinctive characteristics.
For the second, I wish you to use this knife to take scrapings from one of the remnant walls.
Pray be as thorough as you can. I shall be waiting here for the results of your investigations.
Pray be as thorough as you can. I shall be waiting here for the results of your investigations.
Pray be as thorough as you can. I shall be waiting here for the results of your investigations.
And what have you discovered?
Yes, I would agree that the windows are most distinctive. 'Twould seem the structures appear the same to both your sight and mine...
And you say you could not so much as scratch the wall? Even with all your might behind the blade?
Forename, everywhere I turn in this place, my gaze is drawn by peculiar materials for which I do not have a name.
The buildings I had you investigate are prime examples. They may appear to be constructed of ordinary stone, but I assure you it is nothing of the sort...
If pressed, I would describe the substance as a composite of several mineral properties, blended to create a material of unparalleled durability.
Even the Ronkan Empire, once the greatest power in Norvrandt, produced nothing which compares to this level of perfection.
But if not the Ronkans, then who? Who were these ancients the Ondo claim as the architects of their sanctuary?
I suspect our answer lies with the reason Emet-Selch withdrew here to the Tempest.
He may simply have wished to retreat somewhere mere mortals would struggle to reach...but there are many such remote locations. Why here, specifically?
Emet-Selch is devoted to his role, and thus we might assume his choice of stronghold somehow serves the Ascian agenda.
Or mayhap...'tis a place more dear to him than any other.
That is my theory, that these structures are remnants of a time before history─of a star that was yet whole and unbroken.
That was my first thought as well. Yet no matter how superior the materials, a ruin is just a ruin. 'Tis naught that would decide a battle's outcome.
Which brings us to my second theory: that he has some other, more personal connection to this site. What if these structures are remnants of a time before history─of a star that was yet whole and unbroken?
It is my theory that these structures are remnants of a time before history─of a star that was yet whole and unbroken.
Such traces in the Source would have been obliterated by the succession of Umbral Calamities, but here in the First they might have remained untouched for millennia...
...A copy of the mural in the Qitana Ravel. Almet presented it to me during my visit to Fanow, after our victory in Kholusia.
Here, in the first scene...By Emet-Selch's own words, it depicts a city of eons past and the disaster which befell it.
The design is much simplified, of course, but do you see the similarities between its towers and those you have just inspected?
We are close to the truth, I feel. Let us search the surrounds for another tower─one which matches the picture near enough to remove all doubt.
From what I have seen, naught more than sand and more sand lies to the east, and the south held no such structures. I suggest we try our luck further to the northwest.
Aye... This is the mural writ large...
Though I cannot guess at its purpose, it must have been an imposing sight. How much of the tower's height lies hidden beneath the ground, I wonder...
Centuries of our history have settled upon such ruins. Countless layers of dust and sediment...
...An entire civilization, its existence forgotten by all except a handful of Ascians.
And yet it did exist. They lived here, in this city...
But let us focus on what we've learned thus far. The Ondo chieftain spoke of mysteries stirring─of a land illuminated.
Judging by his words, he believes this phenomenon related to the ancients' return.
Thus can we surmise that what the Ondo saw shining in the abyss was, in all likelihood, yet another remnant of this age-old civilization.
And who else would “light the lanterns” as Ryne put it, than Emet-Selch himself? 'Tis almost certain he is there!
But if we are to find this stronghold in a timely manner, it seems gaining the Ondo's trust remains our swiftest path forward.
I only hope our deeds are enough to win them over...
Thank you for assisting me with my investigations. I shall seek out our companions and share what we have learned.
...Much as I would like to tell you to sit down and leave the rest to us, your condition demands that we make all reasonable haste.
If you are not too weary, it may be useful to speak with Paushs Ooan again, and ask if there is aught else he is willing to divulge.
Ah, Alphinaud's friend. You and your companions have done much to repair the damage caused when the waters parted...
...Anything elssse you can do? Hmmm... Have you been to the Walls of the Forgotten?
The remnants to the northwest, yesss? You visited them unbidden? Pshhh... Could it be that your footsteps were guided by the ancientsss...?
Yesss, that is the sacred site of which I ssspeak. Could it be that your footsssteps were guided there by the ancientsss...?
I believe it may be ssso. Listen then, and I will tell you of our plans to bring light to the Walls, that we might answer the shining call of the illuminated land.
We have requested a finless craftsman to shape for us a sssacred lamp. He is odd for a land-dweller, choosing as he does to live in the ocean, but his ssskill is beyond question.
It is concerning, however, that we have heard nothing of his progress. If you were to visit this artisan and return with our long-awaited light, then any doubt as to your purpossse would be laid to ressst.
His name is “Grenoldt.” You will find his workshop in a metal structure to the sssouth.
