If ye wanted to dance, all ye had to do was ask!
My sisters ain't to yer likin'? Too bloody picky, that's yer trouble!
Ugh, my arms...what did you do to me!?
Bet yer guildmaster never taught ye that one!
Is it just me, or is it gettin' a bit chilly out?
Don't worry, folks─I'll keep ye warm an' toasty!
Leih, Forename─spread out! She has oiled arrows!
And I thought you only had eyes for me...
...I can't...I won't...
I am relieved to see you again, Forename.
Had the three of you not been united in your purpose, Pawah Mujuuk would still be free, and one or more of you would surely be dead.
I am so proud of you, Forename. Not only have you mastered our teachings, but you have also helped your guildmates regain the perspective that they had lost. For showing such compassion to your peers, I wish to teach you a new technique─Windbite.
With Windbite, you can bring the power of the very air around you to bear against your opponents. And they will suffer on long after you have nocked your next arrow. It will serve you well in battle, I am certain.
All archers walk the same path, Forename, towards improvement and discovery. As long as you have the vision to see the path ahead, you will continue to mature and excel.
Yet we all grow weary and lose direction in time. When this befalls you, I have no doubt but that you will find your way back to us.
Trust in your eyes, Forename. They will never lead you astray.
Well met, Forename. Would that we had the time for banter, but we're all up in arms here. Yet another Ixali dirigible has been spotted over the Twelveswood, you see.
Their reappearance calls to my mind the Battle of Griffin Crossing. Well, I say “Battle”─most are agreed that “Massacre” would be rather more apt. Aye, the Ixal dealt us a crushing defeat that day. Right around this time of year, it was, more than two decades past.
A humiliating episode in our history, to be sure, but heavens forbid that we ever forget it. Failure is the finest─if not the kindest─of teachers, and few things drive a woman better than its sting.
Ah, but do let's speak of cheerier matters. Mayhap you've already heard, but a renowned archer has recently returned to the Twelveswood─the one they call the “Godsbow.”
That's just a title, of course. His birth name is Jehantel, and he was once of the Gods' Quiver. The man was a legend even then, and there was no honor greater than being taken under his tutelage.
But that's not all there is to him, mind you. Jehantel was also a skilled bard, one of the rare few capable of inspiring others to great feats through song.
Upon learning that the Godsbow had returned, dozens of us flocked to him in hopes of training under a legend, yours truly included.
Alas, the meetings haven't unfolded quite as we had hoped. Jehantel has refused to teach each and every suitor that has approached him thus far.
Though, it should be mentioned that the topics he is reluctant to instruct us in do not include poetry and song. He seems exceedingly keen to teach us all about them. Some few of us were tempted to take him up on the offer...save that we have a nation to defend.
Far be it from my intent to belittle all those bards out there, but I like my chances rather better charging into battle with a quiver than a harp. <sigh> And here we were hoping that transcendent mastery of the bow might be ours...
Hm? By the sparkle in your eyes, I'd wager you have an interest in that selfsame poetry and song. Come now, there is no call for shyness, and there is more to life than battle. If you would present yourself as a pupil to Jehantel, I happen to know his whereabouts.
I'm given to understand that he has made his camp somewhere west of Quarrymill in the South Shroud. Jehantel is an agreeable sort of fellow, and should be willing enough to meet with you.
Truth be told, I'm still holding on to hope. If you could find a way into Jehantel's confidence, mayhap he can yet be persuaded to train us.
I wish you the best of luck, friend.
