Ah, where are my manners? I am Pepoane─a leader, of sorts, of the people living out here.
Pepoane? That has a Tonawawtan ring to it.
Right you are! I take it you hail from this region as well? Tesh'pyani, perhaps?
Yes, I do. I don't suppose you know a woman by the name of Cahciua?
Cahciua...?
Hmm... I'm afraid I'm not sure if I've ever met someone with that name.
Mother isn't here... But it's a relief to know at least some of the people of Yyasulani are alive and well.
Your mother, you say?
Now that you mention it, I do see the resemblance.
You know my mother?
I do, yes.
Then tell me, please─where is she?
...I cannot say. Not here. But I promise I will in due time.
I have a question, Pepoane. Do you recall what happened the day the dome first appeared?
Ah, the barrier? Well...um...
I remember fixing a shelf that had collapsed after a terrible earthquake. Then the ground began to tremble, there was a brilliant flash of light, and...then...
Forgive me. My recollection of it all is rather poor.
You needn't push yourself, Pepoane. After thirty years, no one could blame you for not remembering.
Thirty years!? As in thirty years in the past?
Absurd though it may sound, there is no doubt in my mind the events that led to the joining of our lands occurred thirty years ago.
Which is not to say I understand why our perceptions of the intervening time are so radically different. We only just became aware of the discrepancy, when Zoraal Ja's military base was completed, and we were at last able to venture beyond the barrier.
I believed you long dead. To have the chance to kill you myself is an unforeseen blessing.
Thirty years... Little wonder Zoraal Ja assumed our father had already passed away.
It's not unlike how time passes differently in the First and the Source─the fluctuating space of the rift between them disrupting temporal equivalence.
Perhaps the same holds true here, and time flowed faster within the dome.
I cannot say for certain, but I strongly suspect that to be the case.
I was able to make contact with Y'shtola not long ago via linkpearl, so that shouldn't be cause for concern.
And based on the queen's account, this encampment may have come to serve as a physical bridge between the two planes, after which the dome was forced into the Source's temporal flow.
If we're to be certain of anything, we need more information.
Sphene, would it be all right if we had a look around and spoke with the townspeople?
By all means!
Time to see what we can see of Alexandria, then.
And its people. I may yet find familiar faces among the survivors from Yyasulani...
Even if I don't understand the half of it, I would learn more of this place before we confront Zoraal Ja.
Perhaps you'd care to see how we make our living?
Though we have always prided ourselves on the use of traditional Tonawawtan farming methods, the use of electrope-fueled technologies has led to countless agricultural innovations.
I would join you as well!
Ma'am, please, you needn't trouble yourself.
It's no trouble at all. And I promise not to cause any manner of distraction.
Reassuring words─or they would be had I not heard them countless times before. Very well, but do be careful.
Of course! I shall proceed with the utmost care.
Now, then. If you two would follow me, we can begin the tour!
I can't say that I trust her yet, but I trust that her affection for these people is genuine. And that's enough for me.
Touring farmlands with the queen of another nation is not how I expected to spend my day.
Electrope has done much to improve the efficiency of their farming, but hasn't replaced everything.
The people wanted to preserve their old way of life, and we did not want to force ours upon them.
You went to such lengths so that our cultures could coexist. Even going so far as to learn our tongue... I'm sure everyone appreciated that.
Communication was thankfully not an issue, for the Turali tongue is surprisingly similar to Alexandrian.
Of course, there are words and phrases for which there is no equivalent, but those can be taught with minimal effort.
Through mutual respect, understanding, and patience, we Alexandrians and Turali have learned a great deal from one another.
And I am sure there is much you wish to learn as well. So please, if you have questions, do not hesitate to ask.
Rather than bore you with lengthy explanations, let us head back to the farm we passed earlier.
Yyupye's Halo, it is called. We can speak with one of the farmers when we arrive.
...I guess we're off to Yyupye's Halo.
Here we are. I'm sure you'll learn a great deal from the workers here.
What do you suppose they keep inside this building?
Allow me to introduce you to Mahuwsa, one of the most experienced farmhands in all of Alexandria.
She's well versed in myriad farming techniques. Indeed, the wealth of knowledge she has shared with the other farmers is what has allowed this place to flourish.
