You have questions for me? Certainly! Just a moment while I conclude my current appointment...
...Indeed. So if you could provide a comprehensive log of those behaviors, we should then have sufficient data for our official records.
Now, what was it you wished to speak with me about?
...The chief overseer's “personal research project”? And by that, I assume you mean Meteion?
Such undocumented studies are difficult to track. After all, hardly a day goes past without seeing a researcher trailed by one creation or another...
I'm afraid I cannot tell you exactly when Meteion appeared. Only that she now spends much of her time at Chief Hermes's side.
Although... I do recall an interesting tale my dearest Galene shared with me...
...Ah. Galene is my partner, and a fellow researcher here in Elpis.
She was returning late one night when she caught sight of Chief Hermes sending Meteion heavensward. A host of them.
For several days, she would speak of that scene with wonder, describing it as one of the most beautiful spectacles she had ever witnessed.
That sounds like a story I should like to hear.
Mistress Venat! I thought you had already returned to the surface!
Permit me to thank you again for your invaluable contribution to our concept placement proposal.
Pray do not mention it. As you say, my original plan was to leave after that task, but I have since become engrossed with Chief Hermes's research.
Would you favor me with a retelling of this sight which so delighted your Galene?
Of course. Or you could hear it from her lips directly, if you prefer?
At present, she should be observing a subject in Metabaseos Thalassai.
She does enjoy her time there, watching the sea creatures hunt and play; gazing upon the salty waters of the world's oceans, recreated in such sublime detail.
I imagine you must find similar joy in indulging your boundless curiosity, Mistress Venat...
Even though such pursuits must continually and regretfully delay your return to the star.
...Indeed they do.
'Tis a rest well deserved and long overdue, I should think. How greatly have we prospered for the wisdom you accumulated during your travels as Azem.
And what would Elpis be without your earlier academic work? The theories you developed served as the basis of many techniques still in use today.
Man is a creature of contemplation, but none embody that nature with as much enduring passion as you! Aye, I daresay there is not a soul alive more worthy of a return. I shall rejoice the day you depart on your final journey.
...I will be honored.
Well, shall we take this opportunity to meet with Galene in person?
Then allow me to reconfigure the door to the archives here.
It will take you up to the skyway, and spare you the need to avoid hostile concepts on the ground.
That would be most helpful, thank you.
The other archivists said naught we hadn't already heard, but this story of Galene's sounds promising...
I have opened the path to the skyway.
Once you pass through the door, simply walk straight across to the next tower and ask for admittance to the upper tier.
Upon arriving at the upper tier, walk straight across the skyway, and you will find yourself at the entrance to Metabaseos Thalassai.
Galene will be eager to share her tale with you, I am sure.
The tower ahead is still part of Peripeteia Krystalline. We will need to ask for passage through to the upper tier.
