Oh, hello, dear. You're one of Wuk Lamat's new friends...?
Peshiwa, what are you doing up and about? Is your back feeling better?
It's much healed now, so don't make a fuss. Besides, I can't be lounging in bed all day when you're out there fighting your hardest to win the throne.
You're the claimant with the greatest love for peace.
I love this nation of ours, and lending you my support is the least I can do.
When I see you smile like that, how can I not be encouraged?
Oh ho ho, there's plenty more who believe in your cause. I can recruit a whole battalion of smiling faces if you think it'll help!
Yours alone is more than enough. Thank you, Peshiwa!
And thank you, Third Promise. I shall pray for your success in the contest.
All those smiling faces...
...Ah, sorry, Forename! I'm getting distracted.
It's just that with the progress we've made in the contest, even these everyday encounters feel that much more special.
Do you think we can take our time, and maybe wander around a little first? Then we can head to that spot I was thinking of.
This is much better.
I used to come here all the time when I was little. I would look out over the whole city, and whatever worries I had would seem so small.
Do you remember what I said at the top of Worqor Zormor...?
That I would fight to preserve Papa's peaceful Tural?
Well, I've been thinking a lot since then.
About what “peace” really means. If it's just...the absence of war.
And it brought to mind all the best parts of our journey so far.
I realized: nothing gives me greater joy than the happiness of others.
Life has its ups and downs, but the company of family and friends, and the music of their laughter is what makes it worth living.
And as silly as it might sound, I've come to believe that those smiling faces are the best measure of peace.
Heh, really? I feel proud somehow.
It's an answer I arrived at by trying to be true to myself. That you think I succeeded... It means a lot.
With eternal life and no struggle or conflict? It's certainly an ideal worth striving for.
Who knows if we could make such a world a reality—but renouncing war and conquest seems like a good place to start.
I understand that making everyone happy isn't practical or even possible.
But that doesn't mean we shouldn't try!
So, this is my plan...
When I become Dawnservant, I'll build on Papa's peace! Our people will live together in happiness!
It's just like Krile said.
By taking the time to hear their concerns, understand their feelings, and consider how best to serve... With each passing day, I'll be that much closer to becoming the leader I want to be.
It's hard for me to say how much I've changed since the contest began, but there's one thing I can say with confidence.
I wouldn't have come this far without you as allies!
If it wasn't for you all listening and feeling and thinking along with me, I would have never learned so much, and in so short a time.
There are two keystones left. After everything that's happened─and imagining what could happen─are you still willing to walk this path with me?
Heh, thank the gods for that.
Well, I've nothing else to get off my chest! I need to head to the palace, but I'll see you back at the cabins.
You look to be in good spirits. I assume your leisure time was well spent.
I was glad to snatch some quality sleep, myself. After all, it will soon be back to the road for us!
I'm sure the others will be along shortly. I do hope everyone has rested well.
Now that we have refreshed ourselves somewhat, let us consider all claimants as they currently stand.
Zoraal Ja and Koana have completed every feat thus far and hold five keystones apiece.
Wuk Lamat would be equal with them but for Bakool Ja Ja's thievery, which has left us one short.
That conniving braggart didn't so much as lift a finger for the Feat of Proof and wreaked havoc for the Feat of Ice. He can't have more than three keystones at most.
He may think he can simply steal what he needs to win, but he's sorely mistaken. I will be taking back what is mine─this I swear!
I fear that reclaiming your keystone may not be enough─that is, if Bakool Ja Ja's unleashing of Valigarmanda is any indication.
Using his lead, I anticipate that he will move to obtain the remaining keystones before disrupting his rivals' attempts.
We may all find ourselves being forced to take from one another.
I can't say I'd be comfortable with that.
But neither will I surrender my claim to the throne so easily. If it's for the sake of preserving the happiness of my people, I'll do what I must!
The last two keystones we require are those of the Lay of Repast and the Lay of the Brotherhood.
The former depicts the cessation of hostilities between the Mamool Ja and Xbr'aal in the forests of Yak T'el. Specifically near a village called Iq Br'aax.
That's where I was born, if you recall. I haven't been back there since Papa took me in when I was a baby.
Where the Lay of the Brotherhood takes place, however, is unclear. In the saga, it is said that a foreign explorer came seeking an audience with the Dawnservant...but little more than that.
Eorzea has a similar tale─the explorer Ketenramm befriended a two-headed king known as the Autarch before commencing his travels across Tural.
He journeyed here several times afterwards, but was ultimately lost at sea. At least, that is the commonly held belief.
Your two-headed king certainly sounds like Papa. So this Ketenramm fellow must have come to Tuliyollal!
But if he indeed arrived some eighty years ago, the capital may not have been built yet. Vestiges of Yok Huy architecture notwithstanding.
Wait─you said “Autarch,” didn't you? Then Ketenramm must have met the Dawnservant in Mamook!
Mamook... Is that a city?
One of the grandest in Tural, once upon a time─and the seat of the Mamool Ja's homeland. It too lies in Yak T'el, not far from Iq Br'aax.
Then all things considered, Yak T'el seems the obvious choice for our next destination.
From here, the safest method of travel is by dirigible. We should make for the landing once our preparations are complete.
W-We're riding in one of Koana's balloons? ...They can't be any worse than ships, can they?
How exciting! The design of Turali dirigibles intrigues me. I must note how they perform compared to Eorzean airships...
I-It'll be fine...just...fine...
Yak T'el... Where the Yok Huy dreamt of the golden city...
For as much as I wish we could ignore him, Bakool Ja Ja is a real threat. We can't afford to let our guard down.
Ready to leave when you are.
