Argh, even the weeds wither and die in this desolate dirt.
But a bit of this blackloam ought to change all that! I haven't seen any in ages. Gathering blackloam's not for the weak of will...nor the weak of stomach, eh? Hahaha!
...Oh, don't tell me Gurcant and Rhotwyda neglected to mention where blackloam comes from.
Well, surely you figured it out on your own from the cloying stench! It comes from the aurochs' lair, of all places!
Ahem, well, why dwell on who misled whom about what? What matters is that your efforts have brought us the blackloam, and we can expect a bountiful harvest as a result. Thank you!
Confounded pirates! They know nothin' of tillin', only killin'! Stealin' our shovels to melt and forge into axes, of all things.
They're bitin' the hand that feeds 'em, the mangy mongrels. I'd love to teach those curs a lesson in obedience myself, if I hadn't sworn to Staelwyrn that I wouldn't fight no more.
So I need you to bring back our farm tools, and make sure those dogs reap what they've sown!
I wonder what those sea dogs will try an' steal when there's no harvest!
Ah, good to see the tools back, and in serviceable condition. Which will be more than we can say of Sevrin when we get our hands on him. The wretch likely had a role in the theft.
Spied him meetin' the pirates in secret, I did. I couldn't care less if the wastrel won't work, but when he consorts with cutpurses that take our tools away, he's crossed the line!
Staelwyrn ought to know what sort of scalawag he's dealing with. Take word to him, would you?
Pirates makin' off with our tools? Pfrewahl did well not to take matters into his own hands. Last thing I need is blood on my crops.
But I'll be damned if Sevrin thinks he can take us for fools. His treachery won't go unpunished.
I've come to expect a great deal from you, lass, and you've never once let me down.
Yet what I'd ask of you now goes beyond aught I've asked before. Would you hear my plea all the same?
It eases my mind to have your ear.
You're no doubt familiar with that scoundrel Sevrin by now.
Well, the schemin' scapegrace is at it again. Since that letter came for him, he's been skulkin' about in that manner he does when he's up to no good.
Now he's rounded up his rogues and buggered off, with nary a word to anyone.
I've grown accustomed to his insolence, but somethin' tells me this is different. It ain't exactly damnin', but when last I had words with him, he didn't look defiant so much as hunted. I can't help thinkin' he's gone lookin' for trouble and found more than he wanted.
So I was hopin' you might hunt his sorry hide down and drag it back here before it's too late.
The ungrateful little cur bites me every chance he gets, but I can't quite bring myself to cut him loose. I s'pose he reminds me a bit of my younger self.
Suffice it to say, I'd rather he didn't come to a sticky end. As for how to find him, I'd try askin' Grynewyda at the aetheryte. She was the last one to see him.
I daresay she'll be able to tell you where he was headed.
