Welcome. What are you having?
Energy tonics you can't get from vending machines!? How dare you suggest that I sell such dangerous stuff!
Away with you! Away with you, and don't come back!
...Ahem. Got a voucher? Slip it to me, then. Nice and subtle.
Ah, so you're collecting for Genolt. A can for him and a can for you, eh?
Here you go. Yours is formulated for beginners. Gentler than the full-strength stuff.
It's not contraband or anything, so you won't run afoul of the authorities. But if the Rhodina Consortium was made aware of my special selection, it'd be bad for business.
Now, seeing as it's your first time, I want you to drink your tonic here. Just in case there're side effects.
Bottoms up, now. Need to make sure it doesn't affect you in any unintended ways.
Bottoms up, now. Need to make sure it doesn't affect you in any unintended ways.
Bottoms up, now. Need to make sure it doesn't affect you in any unintended ways.
Heh, now that's how you do it!
Your pulse ought to quicken soon, after which you'll start to see everything more clearly. And then, finally, you'll feel a roaring surge of energy.
People say it's like growing a pair of rainbow wings!
Well, you haven't up and carked it, so hurry along and give Genolt his tonic. He tends to leave it to the last moment, and I expect he's about to keel over.
You heading to the Backroom?
Is it just me, or are there rainbows in your eyes?
We're learning about regulators at the moment! How's your errand coming along?
What do you think of the crew here? An interesting bunch, right? I personally recruited Genolt and Shale, by the way.
Nary a moment goes by without Genolt moaning and grunting. I presume it's how he expresses his passion for his work.
Ye've got the tonic? Give it here, quick!
Ahhhhhh, that's the stuff! Ain't nothin' like it to blow the cobwebs right out─with a great big kaboom!
Awakens something feral in me, it does. Transforms me into a remorseless beast what won't stop till it's done what it was born to do!
Anyroad, sorry for sendin' ye off on an' errand like that. I just can't concentrate without me tonic, ye know? An' the pile o' work only ever gets bigger.
Speakin' o' which, I better get back to it! Those weapons an' tools ain't goin' to enhance themselves!
Ahahaha! It begins! Mine's the clarity, mine's the precision!
I've been meaning to ask about that Mamool Ja child. Could he be...?
Yes. In all likelihood, he's Zoraal Ja's son.
So you think so too...
But what is he doing here?
He was abandoned, the poor dear. We found him in the driftdowns a few years ago.
To think he'd cast aside his child...
We can't say for certain who he was born to or why he was on his own. But he's a blue-scaled Hoobigo, and Zoraal Ja is the only other one around.
That being the case, everyone assumes they're father and son. Even the boy has put two and two together.
This all happened when he was very little, so he has no recollection of his parents. It breaks my heart to think of it...
What's his name?
Gulool Ja.
It was my hope that he'd grow up to be a man of principle, like his grandfather.
It's a fine name.
Ah, I should mention that the boy is a little unusual.
At first, I intended to raise him as my own. But just when I thought he was warming to me, he suddenly disappeared.
We searched high and low for several days, and where should he turn up but in the wilds near Everkeep.
What? It's a miracle he didn't fall prey to fiends!
See, that's another unusual thing. Creatures don't seem to attack him. He could pick his way through the Thunderyards as if he were on a stroll.
On making inquiries, we learned that he had been living alone and receiving food from the people of the outskirts.
This became something of a pattern. We'd track him down and bring him back, only for him to disappear again within a matter of days.
He would return to the wilds, without fail, and once again rely on the kindness of strangers to survive.
Finally, I took the hint and left him be, giving him the solitude he prefers and lending a hand only when he explicitly asks.
If Gulool Ja is Zoraal Ja's child, that makes him my nephew.
Assuming he's willing, I'd be glad to take him in like Papa did for me.
But seeing as I'm here to kill his father, I don't know if it would be right...
Who was that?
Oh dear... It's Gulool Ja.
Don't tell me he heard everything!?
This is my fault. I asked that he be kept away, but I should've taken more precautions...
I'm going after him. I need to explain!
Wait, Lamaty'i. I understand your haste, but it'd be best to coordinate a search.
Cahciua, do you have any idea where he might go?
There's no telling, I'm afraid. He could as easily be outside the tower as here in Solution Nine.
If those who can fight would search below, my mother and I will scour the district.
Sounds like a plan! Let's get to it!
Regardless of the circumstances, Zoraal Ja is Gulool Ja's father. The boy is bound to be confused.
I'm sorry... I should have noticed sooner...
Worry not, the rest of us will keep our preparations moving along. You need but concentrate on finding Gulool Ja.
I hope Gulool Ja will be all right. Should he return here, we'll be certain to let you know.
Have at ye, ye no-good, never-ending pile o' work! Yaaaaaargh!
If Gulool Ja is outside the tower, we need to find him as quickly as possible!
Even if he's used to getting around on his own, the wilds are still no place for a child.
Agreed. While Krile and Raha continue reviewing the data, the three of us should devote ourselves to the search.
Alright, let's head to the base of the tower and take it from there!
Heritage Found is a large area. Splitting up would allow us to cover more ground.
Well, here we are outside, but where do we even begin?
Perhaps someone has caught sight of Gulool Ja. Let's make inquiries nearby.
Good idea. Could you handle the outskirts, Alisaie?
In the meantime, Forename and I will head beyond that big wall.
Where have you gone, little one...?
Where have you gone, little one...?
You spotted those people too, yes? Perhaps they've seen something. Come on.
