There you go again, shrieking the same old tune. I've had it up to my eyeball with this farce! Just because you know a few cheap tricks doesn't give you the right to treat me like that!
I can't stand the sight of you─let alone the thought of taking to the stage with you again! Good riddance!
Hmm. You don't belong to my usual demographic... If you're not here to see one of my shows, then why are you here?
Well, well. Fate has conspired for us to cross paths once again. Out with it, then. I know you're not here to swap pleasantries.
A foul fiend failing to get into the spirit of All Saints' Wake? I'd wager you speak of Philcox, the fellow who stormed off in a huff.
Like most of our ilk, Philcox and I have an insatiable appetite for aether. But unlike your garden-variety voidsent who hunt hapless mortals like beasts, we prefer to sate our hunger with their enthusiastic approval.
I tell you, there's no aether as delectable as you'll find in food gifted in genuine appreciation! Which set me to thinking: perhaps preying on mortals was an old-fashioned and misguided approach.
Thus did I commit to giving folk the sort of frights that dazzle and delight─winning hearts and minds, and in the process no small number of aether-laden delicacies.
And what better occasion for such terrifying amusements as All Saints' Wake? The method is catching, too; many voidsent now seek aether in this manner. Philcox is one such reformed individual.
When I first laid eyes upon him, I sensed promise. But get him in front of a crowd and you're lucky to get a smattering of half-hearted applause, let alone a few measly crumbs.
You'd be better off hearing it from the ahriman's mouth, though. He can't have gotten far.
Heh heh... Pray see if you can't do something for poor Philcox.
That sniveling whelp of an imp! Magicks this, magicks that... The sheer, unbridled cheek of it!
That sniveling whelp of an imp! Magicks this, magicks that... The sheer, unbridled cheek of it!
Can't he see the effort I put in day in, day out!? Yet still he cracks the whip!
Can't he see the effort I put in day in, day out!? Yet still he cracks the whip!
Can't he see the effort I put in day in, day out!? Yet still he cracks the whip!
Apologies... I had taken leave of my senses. Your timely intervention is much appreciated.
Wait. By the look of you, I'd say you're an adventurer. Let me guess. That pumpkin-headed lady sent you to check up on me, did she?
I suppose it wouldn't hurt to tell you my tale... Try as I might, I just can't get the hang of transformation magicks, and without the means to delight the crowds, we're starved for appreciation.
I'm an ahriman. Paralyzing prey with this big eye of mine? Not a problem. Turning them to stone with a petrifying glare? A trifling task. Hells, I can even smell despair and all manner of negative emotions in the people around me!
Obviously, paralysis and petrification won't win over an audience. And my metaphorical nose for despair isn't going to put aether on the table either...
I ought to just tell that pumpkin-headed lady I'm not cut out for this business. If you're here at her behest, you'd better come too.
...That about sums it up. I gave it my all and have naught to show for it. Which is to say, I've come to the conclusion that I will never be an entertainer.
Heh heh... I gather you had a hand in Philcox's decision to lay bare his thoughts and feelings?
Not that it did any good. I'm still stuck at square one─underappreciated and underfed.
Heh heh heh... Such a curious child. Are you truly so blind to your own potential?
No doubt you have an inkling as to what I speak of. Pray share your wisdom with Philcox.
Hmm. Well, you'd be hard-pressed to find a voidsent who'd suggest that. I don't see how helping others helps me... But then again, I know little of mortal ways, so perhaps I should heed your advice.
Erm, I suppose I could give that a go... But do you really think that if I rid people of their woes, they'll repay the favor? I'm unfamiliar with mortal customs, but if you say so...
Ah, wait! I see the logic in it now. What better way to make use of my talents and knock that pompous Papa Gruff right off his pedestal!
No, no, no... I'm getting ahead of myself. I've no idea where to start.
Heh heh heh... Perhaps I can lend a hand with a little...sleight of hand. Hold still.
Not only is that getup guaranteed to turn heads, each and every thread is imbued with a potent magick to aid in your newfound purpose.
Ohoh! You know, I think I can feel it. Maybe this isn't going to be so tough after all!
There you are... Hmm. You know, I had thought to apologize for my harsh words earlier, since our act was my initiative and therefore our success─or lack thereof─was ultimately my responsibility. But I sense that you've been scheming.
It pleases me to inform you, Papa Gruff, that I've found a way to win over mortals on my own terms!
I find that hard to believe... But since you seem so confident, why don't we have ourselves a contest?
Whoever garners the most affection─and thereby the largest share of aether-rich victuals─wins. And to the victor go the spoils─of subservience! The loser will be bound to obey their every whim. How does that sound?
You're on! I hope you're ready to bow and scrape!
Hmph. That mortal epithet about one's bark being worse than one's bite comes to mind... Prepare yourself, Philcox.
I know I've got this marvelous magick outfit, but I'm still not entirely convinced I have what it takes to beat Papa Gruff on my own. Come with me! Just until I get the hang of things─that's all I ask.
Very well. I shall leave Philcox in your capable hands. Heh heh heh...
Heh heh heh... I trust you will do everything in your power to assist Philcox in his endeavors.
How about we try and find a troubled soul in need of aid? Ah, but let's get out of here first.
Right. Time to look for folk harboring negative feelings. Give me a moment.
I don't know if it has anything to do with that pumpkin-headed lady's enchantment, but my powers feel more potent than ever─I've already found someone! And whoever they are, they're awfully flustered.
They're to the northeast, I think...though I'm not sure where exactly. The roads here can be confusing.
Truth be told, this is my first time in the city. I've got a decent sense of direction, but I've yet to grasp the lie of the land. Could I trouble you to lead the way?
Our flustered target is northeast of here. I'll be right behind you!
Say, did I tell you that “Philcox” is just an alias? The pumpkin-headed lady suggested I use it to better engage with you mortals. My real name is actually...ah, what does it matter? It's not like we'll see each other again when this is over and done with.
Something come up? Very well. I'll be waiting at Mih Khetto's Amphitheatre. Make sure you hurry back.
You're back! Well then, lead the way once again!
That clown was amazing!
Turning a pumpkin into a little pup? Whatever will they do next!?
