Summat I can help you with, milady?
Heretics, is it? Well, I've never seen one meself...but that ain't to say I haven't heard a thing or two.
We would be grateful for any information you can share with us. The gods know we've gleaned precious little from talking to the rest of these...people.
If it please milord, I'm Pierriquet─a soldier by trade, though not much of one, if I'm honest. It weren't for the love of stabbing folk that I took up the spear, see.
No, it was by order of Ser Jantellot's father. Still, as long as they keep paying me wages, I ain't fussy as to what they have me do.
Not everyone's as patient as me, though. Plenty of lowborn lads who get pressed into service start grumbling before they've seen their second battle.
And once they've got to thinking how unfair it all is, it don't take much for the heretics to turn their heads. From what I hear, the simple promise of freedom tends to do it.
That may explain how Lady Iceheart was able to expand her following so swiftly.
Sad to say, some mates of mine gobbled down the heretics' tripe and asked for seconds─told me they were off to the western highlands to light a signal fire. That's how you let the heretics know you're serious about joining their ranks, apparently. Send up some purple smoke, and the bastards come to you.
...Is that so? Why then...I am minded to start a fire.
If we are to lure our foes to our position, then we must find a means of producing a signal of purple hue.
...As it so happens, I once heard the tale of a trapper who dropped the hide of a wooly yak onto his campfire. Aside from the terrible stench, the story also described in detail how the smoke from the smothered flames was tinged a deep violet.
You are a monster hunter of some note, are you not, Forename? It should prove a trifling task for you to procure a number of hides. We may need to burn more than one ere the heretics notice our beacon.
Master Alphinaud. You and I shall gather wood for the fire. Aye, it will take the both of us to find enough dry fuel in this frozen wasteland. Let us meet again at the Dreaming Dragon with the fruits of our labor.
'Twould seem that collecting firewood is a new experience for Master Alphinaud. His must have been a privileged upbringing... Ahem. Have you the hides we need?
Ah, I should have known it would be you...
Word reached me of a struggle with a small but well-armed band of trespassers. Forgive my comrades their hostility─few come here uninvited, and fewer still with good intent.
Now, tell me why you are here.
So, you seek to stem the Dravanian tide with talk? A romantic notion.
If you but knew the truth─the spark which lit the flames of this animosity─you would understand the futility of your quest.
Shall I relate it to you? The sordid history my gift has shown me? That which the Holy See has taken such pains to suppress?
'Twas more than a millennium past when an Elezen tribe first sought to claim the lands of Coerthas as its home.
Unfortunately for them, Coerthas was already home to dragonkind, and they were not inclined to make way for the invaders. Thus did a bloody war begin─a war which might well have rumbled on until one or the other side was exterminated, had it not been for the resolve of a single woman. That woman's name was “Shiva.”
While those around her fought and died, she attempted to parley with the dragons, and in so doing discovered them to be possessed of profound intelligence and reason. The great wyrm Hraesvelgr in particular so enchanted Shiva that she found herself growing to love the creature, whom her people considered a monster.
In the eyes of a near-immortal dragon, however, the fleeting life of an Elezen is as that of a freshly cut rose─scarce has the flower bloomed before it begins to fade and wither.
Such melancholy musings plagued Hraesvelgr, who had found in Shiva an unexpected and beloved soulmate. He knew that all too soon, death would snatch her away from him.
Unable to bear the thought of their separation, the maid bid the wyrm consume her, that their spirits might be entwined for eternity.
...Though loath to perform the deed, Hraesvelgr ultimately gave in to her plea, and soon thereafter, the tale of their ill-fated love spread throughout the two warring factions. No more could they raise blade or claw against one another, knowing that the souls of their kin were so inextricably bound.
In the days that followed, man and dragon learned to live in harmony, and together built a nation unlike any the world had ever known. For two hundred years did this blissful age of peace continue, as it would to this day, had vilest envy not stirred in the hearts of the Elezen.
It is said that wyrms owe their longevity to the boundless reserves of vitality found within their eyes─and 'twas in this belief that a traitorous band of knights deceived their allies of some two centuries, and took by force that which they coveted...
Nidhogg─he who now stands poised to unleash his wyrmlings upon Ishgard─was the great dragon who lost an eye to Elezen treachery.
And until he prises it from the hands of the traitors' progeny, no amount of conciliatory words will stay his fury.
You are wrong, Lady Iceheart.
Lest you misunderstand, I do not doubt your vision of the past─'tis true that Nidhogg greatly desired to reclaim the Eye.
Indeed, it was for that very reason that I kept it with me as I roamed the land, attempting to draw him away from the city.
Good gods...
Until recently, Nidhogg seemed unable to resist its allure, and pursued me relentlessly. Needless to say, that is no longer the case. Now, it would seem he has fixed his attention on Ishgard itself, though he knows full well the Eye does not reside there.
You believe he targets the capital for another reason...?
I believe reason has all but left him. Through the Eye, I feel much of what Nidhogg feels, and the dragon's thirst for vengeance will not be quenched by aught less than a sea of blood.
If Nidhogg is indeed lost to reason, might we not seek an audience with Hraesvelgr instead?
He has thus far shown no inclination to aid in the invasion of Ishgard, and may yet welcome our efforts to broker a peace.
You still believe that a peaceable solution can be found? Very well. I will take you to him.
Our road will lead us to Dravania, the homeland of dragonkind. There we shall ascend unto the clouds, where Hraesvelgr resides...
Is aught amiss, my friend?
I sense the many battles are beginning to take their toll. Rest awhile. And should you lose sight of us─Dravania lies beyond the mountains to the west.
Curious... The vestiges of thy mistress's blessing are not as faint as once they were...
Thy will to succeed grants thee unusual fortitude. But will it be enough...?
You are Forename, yes? Pray address me as “Ysayle” if you wish....'Tis passing strange, is it not, that fate should bring us together thus. Never did I think to walk alongside the Warrior of Light.
...But history is full of such unexpected alliances. Shall we make our way into Dravania, then?
The chill of the western highlands is unrelenting, and I would sooner be under the sheltering canopy of the Chocobo Forest.
Beyond Abalathia's Spine—the great mountain range that spans the continent of Aldenard from east to west...
Into the deepening shadows of Sohm Al, where lies the ancient home of dragonkind...
To a land where the soil slithers, and the skies seethe with sinuous shapes, they came.
We now stand on the threshold of Dravania. The path to Sohm Al will take us far to the west, beyond the embrace of the forest's branches.
It will be a long and demanding journey. Might I suggest that we take our rest at the village up ahead, and see that we are properly provisioned?
There is a village here? But I thought these lands the sole domain of dragonkind. Why would anyone choose to live in so perilous a place?
The wild chocobos. Tailfeather was built by hunters who make their living capturing and selling the beasts. Their leader, Marcechamp, is an acquaintance of mine.
Being a gregarious sort, he will no doubt welcome our arrival. And he will also possess more recent knowledge of the road we seek to travel. I trust there are no objections?
Only to this ceaseless chatter. If we are to meet this acquaintance of yours, let us do it before Ishgard burns.
