...The imperial airship? Aye, I saw it approach to land with mine own two eyes.
I hastened to the landing site, arriving just in time to see the vessel take to the skies again, but not before it had deployed a detachment of troops. Gruff orders were being barked, and there was an air of consternation about them.
There were prisoners aboard the airship, it seems, and they seized the opportunity to flee when the vessel was forced to land.
The Garleans who were deployed formed search parties and proceeded to scour the wilderness. In order to alert our forces, I returned to my post...
...To find evidence that someone had been here in my absence. Whoever they were, they tried the door to no avail, and decided to go elsewhere.
In all, I marked two sets of footprints─one large and one small. If you search the area, mayhap you will be able to follow the prints to their owners.
Brrr... So...c-c-cold... I w-w-want to go home...
Uwaaaaaah! P-Please don't eat me! I'm not nearly as succulent as I look! It's all skin and bones underneath, I swear!
<gasp> Forename, it's you! Thank goodness you're here! It's been...it's been awful!
The Garleans were snapping at our heels like a hungry pack of wolves! I was so hells-bent on evading them, I almost ran headlong into a monster's gaping maw...thrice! And when I finally found cover, it hit me how cold and hungry I was!
B-Biggs? He...he isn't here. He went off in a different direction to lure our pursuers away.
It's me, Cid. Have you had any success?
...Tracked down Wedge!? That's wonderful news! Now, what of Biggs?
...I see. Well, it hardly surprises me that the big fellow went off as he did. For all the tongue-lashings he gives Wedge, he's always taken care of him.
I've scoured the area surrounding the Darkhold, but have nothing to show for it. At any rate, we know for a fact that Biggs headed west. With both Yda and Y'shtola helping out, I'm sure he'll turn up soon.
Now then, I'll make my way over to your position while keeping an eye out for Biggs.
If memory serves, there should be an Ishgardian fortification not far to your west─Monument Tower, I believe it's called. Let us meet there.
Dare I hope...? Was that...Master Garlond you spoke with!?
<sniff> After five long years... <sob> Thank goodness he's alive...
I'm feeling better now, Forename! Let's go to Monument Tower and wait for the chief to arrive!
