Booooooooo!
...Tch. Oh, come on.
As I thought─a fellow voidsent. And what, pray tell, are you doing here?
A brother of the void!? Then you know why I'm here─for the Night of Devilry!
Once, we were free to carouse, creep, and caper, guided by the great pumpkin-headed archfiend.
For too long we have been denied our demonic rights─and it is I who shall reinstate our grandest event!
Yes, the age of the Great Gourd shall give way to the era of the Great Pot! Even now, my allies lie in wait throughout the city, ready to usher in the Night of Devilry. You must join us, brother! Join us as we rise again!
No.
What? Why!?
Even if I wanted to, my covenant prevents me from engaging in the wanton vileness you propose.
Regardless, I have no desire to join you for some cheap jaunt through the city with only a few startled mortals to show for it. Such indelicate devilry would only result in our swift and total annihilation.
Ha! Spoken like a true coward! Don't tell me you're frightened of some sharpened sticks and clumsy clubs?
Oh, but I am frightened─as you too would be, had you tasted the full brunt of my master's fury. Perhaps you may yet, if you continue to insist upon this foolish course.
I have learned how to blend in with the people here and extract terror in such a way that does not tempt retaliation.
Your plan would bring but a single night of debauchery. Learn how to cohabit, however, and our collective revelry can last forevermore!
Traitor! Then my minions and I will devour you and your measly bland bread loaf of a friend!
Traitor! Then my minions and I will devour you and your measly stringy sausage of a friend!
Traitor! Then my minions and I will devour you and your measly puny popoto of a friend!
Traitor! Then my minions and I will devour you and your measly miq'abob of a friend!
Traitor! Then my minions and I will devour you and your measly meaty mountain of a friend!
Traitor! Then my minions and I will devour you and your measly scaly snack of a friend!
Traitor! Then my minions and I will devour you and your measly unshorn entrée of a friend!
Traitor! Then my minions and I will devour you and your measly buttered bun of a friend!
