An audience with Emet-Selch? I am afraid you have the wrong office, little one. And besides, he will be far too busy to field the questions of curious children.
Surely you have been told of the looming catastrophe? Every resource available to the Convocation must be spent upon ensuring our world survives.
They have yet to make an official announcement, but it is said the Fourteen are moving forward with a plan of scarce credible proportions─one which promises to grant will to the very star itself!
They will invoke our mightiest spells of creation to birth an entity of all-encompassing magnificence...and then they will rewrite the laws of existence.
'Tis a huge undertaking, and it must be completed ere the corruption spreads this far. Thus I say to you again: do not hold out hope for an audience...
Forename. If I was not certain before, then I am now─the people of this city believe they face the end of the world.
I cannot imagine what purpose compelled Emet-Selch to recreate this ancient “Amaurot.”
And yet...I fancy I hear his words to us echoing throughout this ocean trench. He would have his story known.
We can compare notes once the others return. Hopefully then our next move will become clear...
'Twould seem our conversations were much alike: a looming disaster, creation magicks running rampant, and this Convocation's efforts to bring salvation out of chaos.
I suppose there was talk of little else in the time when these events came to pass.
Ah, Urianger, if I may. What are your thoughts on the ancients' art of creation?
A fascinating discipline, indeed. Aught the mind can conceive may be rendered in reality─all that is required is a clear “concept” upon which to focus one's will.
'Tis not dissimilar to the primal rites taught by the Ascians, wherein ritual ceremony breatheth life into figments of myth and legend.
I see we arrived at the same conclusion, then.
The people who lived in the age before the sundering were blessed with vast reserves of mana...
No matter how draining these creation magicks must be, it seems they paid the cost with naught more than a fraction of the aether which coursed through their own bodies.
If we were to attempt the same, such spells would soon deplete our energies, and then seek to draw the balance from elsewhere─from a hoard of crystals, mayhap, or from the very land itself.
Thus when this art of creation was placed into our hands, it became, in effect, a means for destruction.
An interesting matter which no doubt bears further study. But despite all these revelations, I worry we are no closer to finding Emet-Selch.
Has anyone learned aught which might lead us to his location?
Not directly, mayhap, but from what we've heard, it seems the Convocation of Fourteen is sequestered in the nearby Capitol building.
When we went to see for ourselves, the attendant wouldn't let us through without a writ of permission...
So we tried our luck at the Bureau of the Administrator, where we thought these permissions might be issued. But the clerk there said he couldn't help us since our names didn't appear in the registry...
And that was where we gave up. I wonder, though, Forename... Could you be eligible for one of these writs?
The voice in the lift seemed to know who you were─it might be that your name is registered at the bureaus as well. Worth a look, I'd say.
Meanwhile, I'll head back to the Capitol and search for a less “official” point of entry. Just in case.
Pray allow me to accompany thee on thy reconnaissance. An arcane perspective may prove needful.
Ahem, I... I think I'd like to speak with more of these ancients. Maybe they know something that could help cure Forename's condition.
...Would you mind coming with me?
Of course I don't mind! Just lead the way!
Then Y'shtola and I will busy ourselves with further exploration. There is surely more intelligence to be had.
And so we part ways once more... This time, however, let us reconvene in front of the Capitol.
