Just look at it... Can you imagine a more beautiful city?
Every day, I dream of the life that waits for me inside those walls. Oh, will they ever pick me...?
You've seen what Gatetown has to offer?
These people can no longer fend for themselves. They've become dependent on handouts of meol, and believe Eulmore is the answer to all their woes.
Yet no matter how I frame my encouragement, they seem unwilling─nay, unable─to conceive of any other way of life...
Disapprove...? It frustrates me, certainly. That is only part of it, though. The whole situation makes me uneasy.
'Tis difficult to make a final judgment without first seeing the city's inner workings. Mayhap it is that uncertainty which always makes me feel so ill at ease here...
Not that it matters. However unjust this system seems to me, if these people claim to be content with their lot, it is hardly my place to criticize their choices.
But take that elderly lady you rescued─does it not seem that those who have chosen to forgo Eulmore's largesse are doomed to suffer for their independence?
In the end, they are all but forced to seek refuge in Gatetown. And so hamlets and fields across the island are left empty and untended, hastening the region's descent into ruin.
Nay, I am not convinced that Eulmore's generosity truly serves the best interests of Kholusia's people.
I am not so naive as to think there is some miraculous solution to all of this. Yet I cannot help but frown at the sight of hardworking villagers struggling to survive, even as the chosen few rejoice at being plucked from poverty by the hand of a capricious noble.
There has to be a better way. I will not know for sure, however, until I have taken those long-delayed steps through Eulmore's gates.
'Tis fortunate that you arrived when you did, Forename. I have been working on a scheme to insinuate myself into the city, and if all goes to plan, it should soon come to fruition.
There is a beast tribe who makes its home in the seas surrounding the island. The Ondo, they are called, though you and I know them as Sahagin.
For the most part, they keep to themselves in their ocean grottoes, and rarely have dealings with land-dwellers.
But as Tataru took such great pains to impress upon me during our stay in Kugane, business favors the bold. And so I reached out to them.
I duly discovered that the Ondo are inordinately fond of land-grown produce─fresh fruits in particular. And when I offered to procure such goods for them, they promised to pay me in pearls.
An attractive business venture for any prospective investor, would you not agree? Surely even the most jaded Eulmoran lord would have time for a merchant who can make pearls from plums and pumpkins?
Yes, I've come a long way since my days of buying samurai swords without first negotiating a price!
My appointment with the Ondo is due to take place in a few hours. I just need to collect the produce and meet with them on the shore.
Might you help me make the exchange?
Excellent, I should be glad of your company.
First things first, then─we must pay a visit to Mosha-Moa, my supplier in Wright. Come, it is just to the northwest of here.
