Sir! Sir! You've got to come quickly. The bastards're at it again!
I tried to convince them to stop, but they weren't having it.
<sigh> Very well. I will be there shortly.
...Hm. A proposition. Your comrades strike me as a worthwhile investment. I would not hear men name me a cat before koban, so I shall consider their tithe paid─not for what they have done, but for what I expect they will do.
I'm not sure what to make of that man, but at least the matter of our tithe is settled. For now.
What was that he and the other pirate were talking about? Maybe we ought to go and have a look.
Gentlemen! I am told you were most unreceptive to my associate's requests.
I realize you do not look kindly on the Confederacy and her ways. But if you refuse to pay the Ruby Tithe, your safety in these waters cannot be assured.
Spare me your concern, pirate.Your feeble attempts at extortion will not work on us.
You remain at large because we allow it─because you are such insignificant little pests that we see no need to swat you.
But if you wish to risk the ire of the viceroy, by all means, fire upon an imperial vessel. Give us a reason to bring the full might of the Garlean Empire to bear against your pathetic fleet.
Bastards!
Gentlemen. Surely the fact that you have such limitless resources at your disposal gives you all the more reason to spare some few coins for theless fortunate?
All talk, just as I thought. Come─let us away. I have no time for this rubbish.
We're all the same to them, aren't we? Savages to be ruled or slaughtered.
They've always balked at paying the Ruby Tithe.But they were never so eager to pick a fight...
The problem, you see, is that many of my comrades in the Confederacy are of Doman descent─and the acting viceroy...well, she's none too fond of Domans, to say the least.
If we take any action to hinder the safe passage of an imperial vessel, she'll accuse us of attempting to foment rebellion and brand us enemies of the Empire─which we can ill afford to be. Like the man said, we're all talk.
And where do the Kojin stand in all this?
With the winning side, of course. They are mercenaries to a fault, eager to offer their services without coercion.
The shellback could tell you more...though something tells me he would rather not.
I don't understand. If the Garleans are causing the Confederacy this much trouble─and if so many of you are Doman to begin with─why aren't you willing to fight back?
Hahaha! Spoken like a true friend of the Doman Liberation Front.
If you're planning to rouse us with noble words and grand promises─don't bother. We all know what the imperial army can do. Compared to them, we're boys with boats.
Besides, what ties a man may once have held to his home are forsaken upon joining the Confederacy. We look out for none but our own.
Be that as it may, our livelihood is under threat, and the captain will need to decide soon whether we are to go down in a blaze of glory or bow and scrape for crumbs from the Emperor's table.
...All while our friend the viceroy continues her purge of Doma's “radical elements.” I believe she's holding court in one of the fishing villages evenas we speak.
That she-devil! Her perfidy knows no bounds!
She must be stopped. Come, let us find Soroban and put to sea at once!
Tell the others that these ones have paid. We all have places to be.
What are we waiting for? Come, come! Soroban cannot have gone far!
...Though now that I think on it, it is passing strange that he left without warning. Mayhap he did not wish to be seen by his Kojin brethren?
I doubt he thought to leave us behind, but nevertheless, it may be prudent to return to his ship. Or at least to the Confederate encampment.
Oh, my friends! A thousand pardons! ...As you may have guessed, I was reluctant to be seen in your company by my Red brothers. Ours is a...complex relationship.
I pray you do not misinterpret their actions as a reflection of our allegiances as a whole.
You...you understand? Kami be praised! Too often are shell-less quick to judge all Kojin for the deeds of one.
Right, then. Now that our business with Tansui is concluded, we can traverse the Ruby Sea without fear!
I shall return to the ship and prepare for our departure. If you have any remaining business to conduct with the pirates here, I pray you do so now.
Ah, that reminds me. Forename, would you be so kind as to inform the Confederates of our plans? The more they know of our movements, the less like we are to be mistaken for another vessel by their comrades.
Oh, you're one of the ijin from the beach. Leaving us already?
No need to pay the tithe, like Tansui said. On the other hand, if you were to peruse our wares and find anything to your liking, we should be glad to sell it to you for a fair price.
You have spoken with the Confederates up above, then? Excellent! If you are ready to depart, we may do so at any time.
Of course. Take as much time as you require.
Then let us be off! I shall deliver you to the fishing village of Isari.
Wait─Tansui said that the viceroy was “holding court” in one of the fishing villages, did he not?
Should Isari chance to be the village in question, we could instantly find ourselves surrounded by imperial soldiers. I think it safer to come ashore some distance away.
Very well! I know just the place.
Here we are! I am reasonably certain none bore witness to our approach.
And with this, I believe I have fulfilled the terms of our agreement?
Aye, that you have. You have my deepest thanks, Soroban. Truly, we are blessed to have befriended such a clever and industrious merchant!
Oh, you are much too kind, good sir!
I know not where your path may lead, but I wish you the very best, and hope that we shall meet again.
So we've finally arrived in Othard. All we need to do now is, uh...liberate Doma.
Ah, yes...that.Look...daunting though it is, we do have one thing in our favor: the element of surprise. Unlike in Gyr Abania, the imperials don't know we're here.
Admittedly, that may be our only advantage, considering how few of us there are...
Well, I expect the Doman Liberation Front will even up the odds a bit. But before all that, we need to see if this is the fishing village Tansui was talking about.
It may well be. I smell ceruleum on the breeze...
Even accounting for the rebellion, such indiscriminate shows of force seem pointlessly excessive...
If only you knew how commonplace such scenes have become.Hmm... Are we too late?
Over there─someone's coming!
...It is she! Sworn enemy of Doma─of my master! The traitor who sold her homeland to the Garleans─Yotsuyu!
The viceroy herself. And look─behind her! Isn't that...?
