You! I...I do not believe I know you, madam. Pray move along and trouble me no more.
Are you in the habit of handing bloody documents to strangers? Why would you show me such a dreadful thing? I know naught of it, naught at all!
You know, don't you? Fury take me, I prayed this day would come...
When Ser Joellaut gave chase, I followed close behind. He didn't fall─one of those Dravanian abominations lashed out at him, nearly killed him right then and there. I drew my sword and rushed to his side, straining to see the enemy. But what came from the dark was not a beast, but a voice.
He...he knew things about me, about my family. Secrets I had never told another. He said that if I kept his confidence, Ser Joellaut and I would be spared. But, if I defied him...everyone I loved would suffer unimaginable horrors before they died.
When at last I agreed to his terms, the man came forward. His robes marked him as an inquisitor, but I knew him to be false. Together, we carried Ser Joellaut to the infirmary, and on his first night in Whitebrim Front “Inquisitor Guillaime” was heralded as a hero...
Soon after came the accusations─countless men and women of good moral standing, seized whilst in possession of draconian rosaries. As I feared, he was condemning the innocent to death. I wanted to confess to Lord Drillemont, wanted to put an end to the madness─but then I would remember the inquisitor's threats. And so I did nothing...until Lord Francel was accused.
Some time ago, I followed the inquisitor and found that he kept draconian rosaries in a chest hidden southeast of Whitebrim Front. So, I took several from his chest and planted them in shipments bound for Skyfire Locks. As I hoped, they were discovered and considered evidence of a conspiracy against House Haillenarte, thus exonerating Lord Francel and casting doubt on the other recent trials. And that is the entire truth, I swear. Halone forgive me for not acting sooner...
Why do you persist in this folly? I will not grant you three access to the Stone Vigil. Do not make me repeat myself.
There had better be a very good explanation for why you were carrying these rosaries. And where did you find this papal encyclical?
Fury take me, the inquisitor is a heretic!? Never before have I heard such an unbelievable tale...but this evidence and your testimony could have no other explanation...
I have misjudged you and your friends, Forename, and for that I deeply apologize. I will permit you to enter the outpost─but first, I must needs beg your assistance. Help me and my knights bring this infernal impostor to justice!
That thrice-damned heretic has murdered countless innocents, and made a mockery of our laws! Hells take him and his Dravanian allies!
I am told he makes for Snowcloak even now, intending to pass judgment upon yet another poor soul whom he has branded heretic. If we hurry, there may still be time to prevent further tragedy.
Lend me your strength, Forename! Together, let us put an end to this impostor's heresy once and for all!
