Do I dare believe my ears!? Good King Moggle Mog XII─may his magnificent virtue serve as an example to us all─has fallen!?
All mooglekind owes you a debt, kupo! Ah, and I sense Raya-O wishes to congratulate you as well. I shall let you two speak without fear of interruption.
Your bravery in service to the Twelveswood and her moogles shall not be forgotten, Forename.
My sister will doubtless wish to hear the tale of this great victory from the mouth of the woman responsible. Pray return to the Lotus Stand and treat her to a full account of the day's events, while the details are yet fresh in your mind.
The Elder Seedseer is expecting you, madam. May I show you in?
Forename. You are returned to us, unharmed and victorious. Thus have I two reasons to be glad.
Yet many questions remain unanswered. If you would be so kind as to oblige me, I would fain hear all that occurred in Thornmarch.
...Then it is as we feared.
The king really is a primal...
...But he really isn't, is he? I mean, the moogles don't worship him, for one thing─he's not even a god to them! That doesn't sound like any primal I've ever heard of.
Then mayhap the fault lies with the definition. The fact remains that through a combination of the power contained in crystals and the force of their collective faith, the moogles called forth a being that by rights should not exist. Moreover, when slain, said being left no corpse─the aether which comprised him instead being scattered to the four winds.
According to the accepted definition, he may not be a primal...but the mode of his manifestation was in every respect the same.
Which means...
Ascians. This whole business reeks of their handiwork!
Kupopo!? They...they said it was a masked man who had taught them how, years ago─b-but Gridania has no shortage of masked men, and...and I never thought to question...
Confound it all! How many more will they ensnare with their tainted gifts...?
Too many, I fear. So long as there are Paragons to stir the embers, fools to build the pyre, and crystals to feed the flames, ever and again shall we suffer primal visitation. A somber thought, but a salutary one.
My heartfelt thanks, Forename. Already, the information you have provided has proven invaluable. The grand serpent marshal and I have much to discuss.
Oh! Before you do, my lady, I was hoping we might finish discussing that other matter?
The matter of which you speak has even now been settled. The Scions shall not want for support. We shall be glad to send additional supplies to Revenant's Toll.
We knew we could count on you, my lady!
While Yda and I remain to discuss the particulars of our arrangement with the Elder Seedseer, mayhap you could return to the Waking Sands and apprise the Antecedent of all that has transpired?
It is good to see you hale and healthy, Forename. I received word from Yda and Papalymo that you had felled Good King Moggle Mog XII, but I had hoped to hear your version of the tale.
...So it was as they said. Summoned with the same methods used by the beast tribes and taught by the Ascians.
Though unfortunate, this incident did at least serve to remind the Elder Seedseer of our usefulness. Her offer of additional support could not have come at a better time. My thanks, Forename.
Owing to the tireless efforts of all concerned, we are, at long last, ready to bid farewell to Vesper Bay.
So as to avoid drawing undue attention, we shall make the journey to Revenant's Toll in small groups, departing at irregular intervals.
Lest you doubt, it is still my intention to conduct future operations openly, but on this particular occasion, the need for caution overrides all other concerns. To move north as one ponderous caravan would only serve to invite attack.
It seemed only right that I should be the last to leave, and I would have you remain with me until the end, Forename.
Upon my departure, the Waking Sands will formally cease to be our headquarters, and the premises will be given into the care of Urianger.
I had thought to relinquish the property, but he was quite adamant, and I had not the heart to disagree. These walls have borne witness to some of the brightest...and darkest moments in our order's history. Mayhap it is best that we do not forsake them entirely.
Urianger shall remain here and devote his energies to studying the nature of primals. By the grace of the Twelve, he will one day discover the permanent solution that we have sought for so long.
Of course, he will not be alone─Alisaie shall continue to work closely with him as well.
Should they require our assistance, I have their assurances that they will not hesitate to contact us.
Speaking of Urianger─would you inquire of him if any tasks remain undone? I cannot escape the feeling that I have forgotten something. Something important.
Thou art ever welcome, Forename, but I require no assistance. Pray take thy leave unburdened by concern for my well-being.
Verily, thy countenance bespeaks a desire to quit this place without further delay. Hm. Mayhap thou thinkest this chapter of our tale concluded─that these halls should rightly be consigned to the annals of history...?
In man's eagerness to seize the future, how readily he doth set down the past.
Full many a proud pioneer hath bravely stridden into the great unknown, only to find there the banner of his ancestor, faded by the eons. And still man glorieth in his discoveries. 'Tis through his pride that wisdom doth ever give way to ignorance, while they who lurk in shadow remain hidden, lost no sooner than they are found.
<sigh> Be not offended, Forename. Thy conduct hath ever been beyond reproach. Despite thy surpassing strength, and all thy many victories, thou hast never been so convinced of thine own greatness as to imagine thyself above the failings of thy forebears. Mayhap it is the Echo which hath opened thine eyes to the lessons of history. Would that the same could be said of─
Aaaaaahhh!
Whence came that cry!? The solar! Twelve forfend─the Antecedent!
Forename... Y-You...you must...
Tell me, Louisoix... Would you have done the same?
