Heh heh... An adventurer, by the looks of you. Hmm... As it so happens, I have a proposition suited to a womanman of your talents. Are you prepared to throw caution to the wind and consort with fiends most foul?
Heh heh... It's been more than a few moons since last we met, friend. As it so happens, I have a proposition suited to your talents. Are you prepared to throw caution to the wind and consort with fiends most foul once again?
Of course you are. But before we get to the heart of the matter, let us reflect upon the history of All Saints' Wake.
On this night do fell fiends emerge to cavort and careen, unconcerned with the judgments of those on high. For the halls of the saints' heavenly abode ring with merriment as the wine flows freely─and no one can be bothered to look down.
Thus did gods-fearing folk greet this particular sunset with trepidation, daring not to venture from their homes. No longer. Nay, for adventurers came and drove out the voidsent, restoring safety to the city's streets and marking the occasion as one of jubilation.
That's all well and good, but what of the poor forsaken fiends? Are they, too, not deserving of revelry? My wish is to see All Saints' Wake reborn as a celebration for all, be they ghost, ghoul, Gridanian, or otherwise!
And how do I propose to accomplish this feat? Binding obligations, friend. I've convinced the more sinister sorts to enter into contracts which forbid them from preying on mortals. In exchange, they are permitted to partake in the festivities. But there's one troubled soul who still seems incapable of getting into the “spirit” of things.
Perhaps you'd be willing to give them a helping hand? Nothing too devilishly difficult, I promise.
Before you get started, you'll want to get a grasp of the particulars by speaking with Papa Gruff. He ought to be performing one of his shows by the entrance to the Greatloam Growery. Now go─I shall be watching your performance with great interest. Heh heh heh...
Seek out Papa Gruff near the entrance to the Greatloam Growery. I daresay you'll find him in the midst of one of his performances. And remember: I shall be watching. Heh heh heh...
Although it pains me so, our humble performance must draw to a close. Let us then end things on a high note! Ladies and gentlemen, I bid you feast your eyes on the fantastic Philcox and his transformation magicks!
