Grrr...
Oh, the terror! Those bloodthirsty eyes, those razor-sharp fangs... F-Flee if you dare, but this hellhound will chase you to the ends of the earth to have its onze of flesh─and I would know, considering the scars of its wrath upon my backside!
Imagine each and every pumpkin adorning this fair city transformed into such a thing! ...Why, dread would prey upon Gridania to the last ilm, if I made it so. A veritable banquet of chaos!
Hah hah hah!
...Bloody brilliant! You drew us in all that talk of monsters, only to dash our expectations with an adorable pup. I admit some confusion at first, but now I see you are a clown among clowns!
Not a single bloodcurdling scream. But a smile is...not a complete failure, I suppose?
Ah, my pumpkin-headed master asked you to help me? Well, allow me to peel back the curtain, as they say.
If my master sent you, I suppose there's no harm in revealing my true identity. I am no clown, you see, but a voidsent.
Considering our previous acquaintance, this hardly bears repeating, but my true form is that of a voidsent.
My, not even a grimace. Well, I suppose it would be inconvenient if you ran away screaming after every sideways glance in my direction.
Now, for the matter of this furry abomination...
"Frighten enough to tickle, but not scar,“ is the agreement that binds me to my master. I don't need to be told twice that summoning any of my kind would be in gross violation of that covenant.
So, remembering the deceptively winsome countenance of this vicious hellhound, I thought it would strike the perfect balance between horrifying and heartwarming. That is, until a child at an earlier show burst into tears at the pup's appearance.
Now I've seen a man react with a hearty laugh to the exact same dog, with nary a trace of fear in his voice. The difference is vexing! Tell me, is a puppy something to be feared or cuddled?
Do you jest? You mean to say your kind's definition of terror...differs from person to person!?
I admit, that does explain the sheer contrast in reactions I've observed so far. And it does place me between a rock and a hellish, soul-rending place.
If my task was simply a matter of bringing people to fearful tears, the ground beneath you would already be soaked through. How in the hells' good name does one frighten to tickle...?
Ah, but you! You, with your delicate sensibilities can teach me to mix dread and delight into a charmingly chilling concoction. Let us begin at once!
Grrr?
I trust you and Papa Gruff will get along like screams and bloodshed.
Let's get right to it, eh? First, we need to find people to scare─but not scar!
Your kind seems to gravitate towards the pumpkins we've placed throughout the city, which creates the perfect opportunity for mild mischief.
One of our displays should be just over this hill and another is near the Lancers' Guild. Your job is to tell me what to transform the pumpkins into once we find suitable test subjects─let's see how well you tickle!
You may have heard terrifying stories of my past, but I regret to say the magicks I wield don't quite live up to my reputation. I only have a talent for minor transmogrification, really.
My master, on the other hand... Oh, I shudder to think what mayhem she would be capable of if she wished it.
I fail to see what could be more important than this task, but if you insist... Once you're ready, come and find me near the Leatherworkers' Guild. I'll be thinking up entirely new ways to make your kind scream with joy.
There you are! Well, All Saints' Wake doesn't last forever, so let's cook up a few frights!
