Mew...
Mew...
Erenville has the punutiy in hand, then? Good. I expected nothing less from a certified gleaner.
As for the harness, we were able to purchase all the parts we need. The Leveilleur twins are over in Earthenshire right now, having the potsworn make the repairs.
I'm told it shouldn't take long. We'll be ready to embark on our rescue mission as soon as we hear from Thancred.
Thancred must know something by now...
You found her!?
...Understood. Thank you.
I had but to invoke his name. Thancred followed the Hoobigo's boat to its destination, and confirmed that they are indeed holding my sister captive.
“They,” of course, being Bakool Ja Ja and his minions. I swear, I will make them regret this.
Lamaty'i is in Richleaf tunnels. The moment the harness is repaired, we strap in the punutiy and make our way back down Ihuykatumu!
Thancred!
The Third Promise is up ahead. She's unharmed, but we'd best not dally.
Gehehehe!
Give it back! Fonjeantaine poured his everything into that stone! You've no right to touch it!
Aw, was that the name of your artisan? How could you allow something so precious to be stolen!?
You thieving cheat! You're no true claimant!
What does that make the foolish kitty who fell into my trap? If pitiful roars were all it took to claim the throne, you'd be first in line!
Now, now, Brother, you shouldn't tease her. Look, the poor thing's on the verge of tears.
Meow! Someone save me!
Gehehehe!
Kyahahaha!
Ow!
Who did that!?
Hmph, his scales are as thick as his skulls.
Coward! You dare ambush me!?
'Tis the blessed siblings' favored tactic.
That useless Boonewa sycophant. He was supposed to keep the lackeys running in circles!
Oh, you must tell me all about that.
Careful now! You wouldn't want to hit our hostage!
That one's not to be underestimated!
They can do nothing while we have─
Impeccable timing!
Lamaty'i, are you all right!?
Aye, thanks to you!
These weaklings think they can defy us! We'll slaughter the lot of them!
Patience, Brother! The keystone is ours─there is no need to fight this day! And Zoraal Ja has left us hurting...
No! I won't stop until I gut these maggots and feed them their entrails!
If we fall here, we fail our siblings for nothing. Is that what you want?
No, Brother...
Break off! We retreat!
Wait! Damn you, Bakool Ja Ja!
Do we give chase?
We head back. Lamaty'i is safe, and that is what matters.
I am glad to see you unharmed, Lamaty'i.
Thanks again for coming to my rescue, Koana.
And all of you too.
Bakool Ja Ja must be desperate indeed to resort to such aggressive tactics.
I shouldn't have been so careless. I underestimated him, and it cost me a keystone!
Fonjeantaine upended his life so that I could accomplish the Moblin's feat. He believed in me─believed in my cause─and I've let him down!
You're right. It's not over till it's over!
Yes... We'll do exactly that!
You're godsdamned right about that!
The next time I meet that brute, I'll knock him straight on his scaly behind and take back my keystone!
Speaking of vengeance, didn't Bakool Ja Ja curse some “useless Boonewa sycophant” when he caught sight of us?
A reference to Sareel Ja, I would assume. He is devoted to our brother, and is the only Boonewa I know of participating in the rite of succession.
If Zoraal Ja was somehow involved in this...
I will never forgive him for putting our sister in danger! He will have forfeited his right to be called brother!
Ahem... Bakool Ja Ja should face punishment, of course, but so must the bandits who had the temerity to abduct Lamaty'i.
I shall request that Father send a contingent of Landsguard to enforce the law in this region.
I agree that measures need be taken to keep travelers safe.
But I wonder what pushed these people towards a life of banditry in the first place? If we dig deeper, we might find a way to improve things for everyone.
...'Tis something to think about. For now, however, the rite continues. I thank you all for your help.
We should be moving on, as well. Are you feeling fit to travel, Wuk Lamat?
You bet I am! Zoraal Ja's gained a good head start, and it's time we clawed back some lost ground!
We'll need to take that keystone back from Bakool Ja Ja before we arrive at the city of gold. He will not relinquish it without a fight, though...
Though they share a single body, it's obvious Bakool Ja Ja has two minds when you see one head calming the other head down.
His personalities are as distinct as two individuals could be.
Koana is the picture of composure and rationality...except when it comes to matters concerning Wuk Lamat's safety. Far be it from me to fault a brother for being protective, but still.
The Wuk Lamat I once knew would have been inconsolable at the loss of a keystone.
This journey─and your companionship─is doing her a world of good.
I really am sorry this happened. From now on, I won't let my guard down around suspicious strangers.
And again, I do appreciate you all coming to save me!
The road beckons, friends! Let's be on our way to the Yok Huy!
Then it's back to where the path through the mountains begins. You remember: the spot where you were tricked into walking off with Wawkesa?
Just going to rub my face in it like that, eh?
I wonder if he's raising my hackles on purpose, though. You know, trying to keep my anger directed at him instead of myself.
Either way, we can't be standing around here all day. We have a lot of lost time to make up for!
Pfff... Kohhh... Rediroq is glad the Third Promise is safe! But please, keep on your tippytoes─the testingtrials are not over yet.
Erenville said this path will take us all the way to the Urqopacha highlands, didn't he?
Zoraal Ja will not have been wasting time while we were busy tussling with Bakool Ja Ja. We need to hurry.
Those bandits must have been watching us from the moment we stepped off the riverboat... I knew I felt eyes on us.
I couldn't leave without letting Rediroq know what happened, so I stopped in Earthenshire to say a few words before moving on.
...And now Erenville's nowhere to be seen! Couldn't he wait a few more moments!?
Hmph, so much for giving him the benefit of the doubt. Come on, let's catch up─I want to give that smug gleaner a piece of my mind!
I worried Wuk Lamat would agonize over the loss of her keystone, but it seems I had nothing to be concerned about.
Onwards and upwards, then.
We have to be quite high up by now... Which makes me wonder how much higher the summit of Worqor Zormor must be.
<pant> <pant> I've never...climbed so high before... I'll tell Erenville off...once I catch my breath...
Seems those buildings up ahead are the village we're headed for.
The Yok Huy have a deep connection to the legend of the golden city. This visit will allow us to ask them about it directly.
As I'm sure you've noticed, the air grows thin at this elevation. Take it slow until your body adjusts. Deep breaths. Drink plenty of water.
A few more steps and we'll be in Worlar's Echo.
I knew the path led here, but I've never set foot in this village myself.
Chilly air. Stout stone construction. If I squint a bit, I might think I was in Ishgard for a moment.
Thank the gods─they have an aetheryte. I don't fancy the idea of trudging up that mountain trail a second time!
Everything here is giant-sized, but that structure in the back is on a different scale altogether. A temple of some kind, mayhap?
Phew... I think I'm getting used to the air up here.
So this is the place from the Lay of Proof, where Papa met with the Yok Huy...
And that must be them. I don't think I've ever actually seen one outside of a picture.
So it is for most Turali. The giants rarely visit the lowlands.
Here, in their mountain fastness, they tend to the solemn duty they pledged to undertake in their pact with the Dawnservant─
To watch over the tural vidraal Valigarmanda, and maintain its prison within their temple.
Ah yes, Wuk Lamat told us about the tural vidraal─creatures that live for far longer than normal and awaken to strange powers.
Indeed. Yet even among those anomalies, Valigarmanda is unrivaled in strength. It has endured for centuries, bringing catastrophe each time it emerges from its lair.
As you learned in the Lay of Ice, it was Gulool Ja Ja who at last managed to imprison the beast, and it has lain dormant in the temple ever since.
It's said the building still bears a gaping hole in its ceiling from when Valigarmanda was lured inside by Gulool Ja Ja's final ploy.
I'd like to see this strongest of all tural vidraal. I wonder what it was like to fight it!
Worlar's Echo was where both the Lay of Proof and the Lay of Ice took place...
Does this not suggest we'll be facing two feats this time?
That's a question we can ask the elector once we find him. Or maybe we should flush out Bakool Ja Ja first so I can beat my keystone out of him...
Damn right! Now, where to start looking...
Ahem. Perhaps the feats should take precedence while we're here? I am sure there will be other opportunities to confront Bakool Ja Ja.
I suppose we do still have four keystones to earn. And no matter what we do, the contest will pit us against him sooner or later...
Alright, let's seek out the elector!
Then I suggest we pay a visit to “Karryorzar the Gracious”─or so their temple is called. The Moblins told me that High Luminary Gurfurlur is to be found there. If we are to ask someone for information, then he seems a wise choice.
The temple guards have been watching us most intently. One does not stroll freely into Valigarmanda's prison, it seems.
Is it taboo to request entrance to the temple, you think?
We'll need permission to enter the temple, but I expect it won't be a problem for the Third Promise.
While this is certainly an impressive building, it doesn't seem the sort of structure one would build to hold a tural vidraal...
