Greetings, ribbit, and welcome to my good mistress's relict. Puro Roggo is my name, and I am honored to be your guide.
Within you will find a space dedicated to the making of familiars, along with a cavern wherein the requisite ingredients may be had. I must warn you, however, that the place has not played host to a single soul, much less a broom, in over fifteen years, and will, I regret, be in some disarray.
But rest assured, my brothers and I shall see to it you do not lose your way. Now then, ribbit! Only say the word, and I will show you in.
I was still a child when last I came here, but now I am rather more capable. Not that Master Matoya seems to have noticed. Mayhap she will when I have cleaned up the mess she left.
So, Forename, shall I lead the van? Or would you rather I followed up the rear?
Whatever you prefer, I am happy to adapt. So come, let us go and make our mother porxie!
I'm no stranger to porxie-making, as you know. And that must count for something!
Though it has been a while since last I joined the fray, I have followed Alisaie's example and practiced whenever possible. My healing magicks are ready as always.
Right. To begin with, I need you to gather a few ingredients.
Listen well to what the poroggos say. Or you'll wish you had.
I never thought I would see this place again.
First things first: we need to harvest some clay.
The clay can be had at the Clayclot Cauldron, ribbit. Through this portal, if you would.
We will be counting on your local knowledge.
Stay focused, now.
What creatures have since taken up residence, I wonder...
Whatever they are, we'll make short work of them.
Please follow me, ribbit, and put down any pests that bar the way.
Allow me to assist you with the gap, ribbit.
I did not imagine the place would be so infested, ribbit...
The clay is just across the way...but you'll need to deal with the mudman first, ribbit.
So that's the keeper of the clay.
Is that supposed to be a golem?
Aye. This is what happens when you neglect to tidy up.
This is fine clay, perfect for our porxie!
Yes! Excellent work, everyone!
If I didn't know better, I would say you were having fun.
Now we have our clay, ribbit! Let us return to the interstice!
Next, we need to get the water flowing again.
So back here again and on to the next task.
So, what's next? Water?
That's right─water to work the clay.
