Are you lost? Wander in off the street, perhaps?
Wait, don't tell me... You're a trainee gleaner fresh off the guildship! I'm right, aren't I?
Oh, how silly of me, an orientation is in order. Ahem! Allow me to bid you a warm welcome to Searchers' Meet!
Let me start with a question: what is the most important thing you'll find in the Studium?
That's right─books! And what's the second most important? Why, that's simple... Everything else!
That's what we deal in here at Searchers' Meet. Whenever the students or tutors find themselves in need of equipment or materials, they come to us. If we don't have it in our stores, we send the gleaners off to find it.
Honestly, you wouldn't believe some of the requests we get. Eye of paissa this, tongue of gigantoad that...it's enough to make your hair stand on end! Which is possibly what some of our students are trying to accomplish, this being a school of magic and all.
As our newest gleaner, you'll have your work cut out for you, but I think you'll find it quite rewarding!
I beg your pudding? You're not a gleaner? Then this...was all an elaborate ruse!? No, wait─come to think of it, you never actually claimed to be one in the first place. My mistake!
So what you're telling me is...you're not a gleaner? Yes, that's exactly what you said, isn't it... And you're looking for a scholarch? I'm afraid we don't have any of those in stock, but I can─ Ohhh, you mean him!
He was here, but...now he's not. I did speak with him shortly before you arrived, though. He said he was on his way to Makers' Meet.
Go back the way you came in, and you'll see it on the opposite side of the entrance. It's a laboratory of sorts, home to many rare and expensive curios...not to mention alarmingly frequent accidents. If you lose your way, just follow the bloodcurdling screams.
Ha! In the time it's taken me to tell you all of this, the scholarch has probably already left! Best of luck finding him─ I've a feeling you'll need it!
Finding a worthy gleaner is proving tougher than I thought. Maybe I'm not suited to this line of work...
