Synchronization complete. Data for the Endless “Sphene” has been overwritten and reconfigured. All shall be well, henceforth and in perpetuity.
Forever will I keep and cherish my people. To that end, I have removed the remaining checks upon my authority.
Gods!
Obstructions to the plan will be summarily removed.
Wait! I still haven't said─!
Begone from my presence.
According to Eliminator's battle data, you pose the single greatest threat.
As such, you will be erased here and now.
I am the bearer of the memories of Queen Sphene of Alexandria, and my desire to protect my people transcends all others!
If it were you, could you have found another way? With your strength, could you have held fast to that which is dear without sacrifice?
Listen to me. There's something that I need to tell you...
Is that concern? Or suspicion?
If things should take a turn for the worse...
Might...I...
Obstructions to the plan will be summarily removed.
The worlds have been bridged!
Be at ease, everyone. Your aether will soon be replenished.
I will suffer no interference.
Disappear.
Greetings and good-bye.
Do not be afraid. Death is not the end.
We require aether.
We require aether.
Deploying drones.
I will show you the worlds beyond.
I will show you the worlds beyond.
I will show you the worlds beyond.
I will show you the worlds beyond.
Are you still alive? Activating reserve power.
Are you still alive? Disengaging safeties.
Target area delineated. Commencing erasure.
Target area delineated. Commencing erasure.
Target area delineated. Commencing erasure.
Target area delineated. Commencing erasure.
Target area delineated. Commencing erasure.
Target area delineated. Commencing erasure.
System overload. Aborting process.
Let us rise above death!
Are you still alive? Recommencing erasure.
System overload. An error has occurred.
System override order confirmed.
System override order confirmed.
System override order confirmed.
System override order confirmed.
System override order confirmed.
System override order confirmed.
Is this...a rift in reality? Has she lost control of the power!?
There...a rift in her reality! She's losing control of the power!
Sphene! Listen to me!
I understand, I do. And I know that you won't be swayed from your course.
But if there's truly no other way to resolve this...
Then face me! Not as a machine, but as the real you!
Lamaty'i...
Sphene!
Anomaly detected in memory banks.
Data for the Endless “Sphene” partially restored.
This is what I desire...and I will not fail!
I can't bear to lose them! Not again!
I feel your pain! As if it were my own!
At last I think I know you─all of you.
How can you say that to me now!?
It's over, Sphene. We will stop you.
No! I won't let you! I can't!
I will protect my people's happiness!
Leave your burden with us now.
We will bear it in your stead!
Sphene...
Sphene!
Your voice reached me, Lamaty'i.
Is it...is it really you?
No─only in part. My memories as a living person are gone. I've been remade from those I had as an Endless.
However...I cannot remain long, for the Meso Terminal will soon cease to function.
Once, you wanted to know me, Lamaty'i. Let my last act be to give an honest accounting.
I am, above all, sorry. For the suffering I've caused your people, and mine.
I am, ultimately, powerless against the inevitable. Unable to do aught but visit harm upon the innocent.
I am, in the end, a pitiful, selfish creature. One that should never have been created.
Our nations are worlds apart, but they feel so close. Who knows what we could have accomplished had we walked together, towards a shared future.
And yet...it could never be so. We each had our own to protect.
If only I had met you when I was still alive, then perhaps...
But it's no use dwelling upon a miracle that didn't happen.
Still, if there's one thing I hope you'll believe, it is this.
Brief though it was, I treasured our time together. It pains me to think that its memory will disappear along with me.
I know I have no right to ask this of you, but...when I'm gone...my people... Will you...?
We'll take care of them, don't worry. And we will never forget the Endless.
Neither them nor the time we spent with you.
So be free of your burdens, Sphene. And sleep well.
I will. Thank you.
Farewell, my beloved Alexandria.
So it was that the Meso Terminal fell dark, and the Endless departed for oblivion's embrace.
Their resplendent paradise was no more, as the memories sustaining it faded with the golden light.
Even so, in a way, they live on.
This I felt with conviction as I basked in the glow of a new dawn.
It remains to be seen how interdimensional fusion may have affected other reflections.
Krile's parents spoke of the power's capacity for both good and evil. I cannot help but wonder how Sphene's deeds will be remembered by those they touched.
The key that started it all was entrusted to the adventurer.
Such an artifact certainly lies within the Scions' realm of expertise, and no objection was raised to their retaining it for research.
By order of Vow Koana, the Skydeep Cenote was placed under the strict watch of the Landsguard.
With the mighty Bakool Ja Ja among their number, they shall not want for strength even in Zoraal Ja's absence.
Upon learning of their queen's passing, the people of Alexandria mourned and wept.
Having devoted herself to sparing them sorrow, the sight might well have moved Sphene to tears.
However...
With Wuk Lamat carrying on her legacy, I have faith that her subjects will know joy once more.
As anticipated, the news that young Gulool Ja had succeeded his father as king was greeted with trepidation.
Reception was also mixed when Wuk Lamat came forward to name herself as the boy's guardian.
But the people were mollified to learn that Everkeep's systems remained operational, and there would be no impact on their lives.
One day, when he is older, Gulool Ja will decide for himself what manner of ruler he will be.
Till that day and beyond, may the path of the young king be illuminated by the love of family.
Meanwhile, in Tuliyollal, the people came together to hail their new Dawnservants' great victory.
Having honored those they lost, they turned their attention to a brighter future and celebrated for three days and nights.
Not everything had been resolved, though.
Those who had spent thirty years in the dome struggled to resume their former lives. This and a host of other challenges remained.
But as the new Dawnservants continue to lead with strength and wisdom, the people may be assured that peace will endure.
I'm sorry we haven't been able to talk properly. Between the reconstruction work and Papa's funeral, I've hardly had time to breathe.
But, at long last, there's a lull in my duties.
You've done more for us than we could ever hope to repay. Thank you, from the bottom of my heart.
When we left Eorzea behind to take part in the contest, none of us could have predicted what complications would follow.
You truly have a knack for finding trouble, my friend.
And you wouldn't have it any other way.
So, what's next for you? Assuming you're still set on leaving the gleaner's life behind?
I'm off to fulfill my mother's dream, of course.
Like she had intended, I'll embark on a journey in search of the unknown. She's sure to enjoy my stories when we meet again in the aetherial sea.
Well, well, sounds like a plan! But will you have the coin to get by?
I may no longer be a gleaner, but I still have contacts in Sharlayan. Contacts with deep pockets always eager to pay for information on new or rare species.
Heh, you've got it all worked out.
And what of you? Any new adventures in the offing?
Regardless, until you're ready to leave, you're our guest here in Tuliyollal. And this time, I won't pester you to take up a post.
By now, I know you well enough to know you can't stay in one place. No more than you can ignore the plight of those in need.
Your path will always lead you elsewhere, and you'll continue walking it. Isn't that so?
An adventurer to the marrow, you are. What is it exactly that spurs you on?
Homecomings are usually uneventful affairs. This time, it was anything but for me.
But all's well that ends well, and we have you to thank for that.
Well, as much as I'd love to keep chatting, I need to get going. Still a heap of things to do, and it wouldn't do to leave it all to Koana.
By the way, did Gulool Ja decide to remain in Solution Nine?
He did. I said that he can consider Tuliyollal his home, but he's more comfortable over there. Shale keeps an eye on him for us.
But we'll visit him as often as we can. He still needs our support, especially while he's agonizing over his inherited authority.
Though I told him he needn't make a decision right away, we can't postpone it forever either.
I'll do whatever I can to help Gulool Ja, as well as everyone inside the dome.
I promised as much to Sphene...
For my part, I'll be keeping to Tural for a time. Among other things, I'd like to look into the problem with the wildlife in Shaaloani.
So if you get the urge, Forename, let's go on another journey together. There's still plenty of places I would like to show you.
Now that sounds like fun! If you ever have need of me, I'll come running!
Oh, and before I forget, I also have a gift for you. Can you guess what it is?
An alpaca! It comes from Tobli's stable, of course, and it's as sure-footed as they come!
Perfect for an adventurer who's always on the move, eh? Here, this is the whistle for calling it.
Right, I'll really get going now, but I'm sure we'll meet again soon. Till next time, take care!
