I will deal with you in a moment.
...These are their chosen representatives.
Very well. Let us hear what they have to say.
Yes, sir!
I present to you our commander...
...Lord Quintus van Cinna, legatus of the Ist Legion.
The Ist? I had no idea you had survived!
We lost our Emperor, our city, more than half our troops. For my wounds, I may never take the field again. But we survived, aye.
In a manner much to your liking, I daresay.
We have no intention of adding to your misfortunes. Nor do we bear you any ill will.
Spare me. Though you children may speak in earnest, overtures of peace ever ring hollow in my ears. So long as man stands to profit from his neighbor's suffering, war is inevitable.
Driven from our ancestral homeland into this blasted waste. Yet still you yearned to rob us of our paltry scraps.
'Twas only with magitek that you learned to keep your distance. Though we knew it was only a matter of time before you regrouped and returned.
Conquest and empire were our only defenses. Emperors Solus and Varis understood this, and through their campaigns saw us grow and prosper. Much blood has been spilled in Garlemald's name, aye, but if it is a choice between yours and mine, then it is hardly a choice at all.
I do not deny that a great many conflicts throughout history were driven by the desire─or necessity─to gain by another's loss. That is not why we are here.
Nor have we come to petition your aid in the war with the Telophoroi, grave though that threat may be. Our purpose is simply this:
We wish to help you. Let us help you. If there is aught that can be done to ease your plight, we would be glad to do it.
Perhaps you would.
But regardless of the ideals you espouse, your leaders would not send an army into Garlemald if they did not stand to benefit.
If we accept their aid, they will expect their efforts to be rewarded once the Telophoroi are no longer a threat.
And after compensation and concessions, the great Empire would be brought to heel. Her enemies rejoice at her downfall. Our third eye a mark of shame.
We won't stand idly by and let your people be humiliated─and we're not alone in that. We only want to make a difference─to make this world of ours better. Surely you can understand that.
What I'm trying to say is...there are so, so many people who just don't care about making you suffer. And maybe that's almost insulting after all the suffering you feel the world has subjected your people to, but...
Believe it or not, that's the truth. And now we're here, and all we're asking is for you to tell us what you want. What you hope for.
So much blood has been shed. So much lost. All because of this endless war. Who wouldn't want to end it?
Can we not work together, to face our problems as one?
Answer me this, young peacemakers.
If a world without conflict is your desire, why reject the unity and prosperity of Garlemald?
Is it because we do not share your faith?
That we do not share your heritage?
That our ideals and virtues differ? That we cherish and hold in the highest that which you do not?
Disparity is the root of discord, and peace built on compromise is flawed and fleeting. Happiness for one and all is a dream, and the reality is that to the victor go the spoils.
That is why we Garleans will never submit nor surrender. For freedom and for pride, we will remain true to ourselves until the bitter end. That is my hope.
It seems there is nothing more to say on the matter.
You will remain here while I decide what is to be done with you. Do not be alarmed. No harm will come to you─if you cooperate.
We will not resist. However, as your “guests,” I ask that we be allowed to speak with the other members of your group.
As you wish. I had no intention of locking you up, as by dawn you would be frozen stiff, and you are no good to me dead. You are free to move about the encampment. But there is one condition.
Collar them.
What are these...?
Incentive. You will be watched at all times. Stray too far or act suspiciously and we will administer a rather painful shock.
Stop. Keep away from that one.
The champion of Eorzea is not so easily cowed.
Even if she allowed herself to be collared, the shock would be no more than an itch. No─if she refuses to obey, we will activate the twins' restraints instead.
You needn't worry about us.
We'll forget we're even wearing them soon enough.
Even now, you still... Why go to such lengths? What is it all for?
You are a curious one. A far cry from the merciless barbarian others paint you to be.
You will be their warden. Take them away.
Yes, sir!
It will take more than a trifle such as this to deter us.
Compared to what Garlemald's people have suffered in recent days, these collars are a minor inconvenience.
I have to remind myself not to touch it, even if it starts to itch. I'd rather not set if off by accident...
...Anyway, enough about that. Let's learn what we can from the refugees.
As per Lord Quintus's instructions, I am to supervise you during your time here in Tertium.
Before you ask, no I don't have a key or any other means to remove your collars. Nor would I tell you if I did. And if you try anything, you'll soon wish you hadn't.
So, do you truly intend to speak with the others, or was that merely a ruse?
We're in no hurry to disobey Lord Quintus, if that's what you mean. Or perhaps you doubt the wisdom of his decision?
...Do as you will. But remember, I'll be watching.
If I catch wind of you doing anything untoward─trying to trick our people into turning their coats and the like─those shock collars will be the least of your worries. Understood?
Though we're somewhat compromised, to put it lightly, let's not waste this opportunity. I suggest splitting up and learning what we can of their situation. And above all else, don't use magicks of any sort.
You, on the other hand, may go wheresoever you wish. Even outside the camp. I know full well I couldn't stop you if I tried.
But do not forget, if you do anything to endanger us or our interests, Alphinaud and Alisaie will pay the price.
You heard what I said. Don't make me repeat myself.
Is there aught we may do to ease your woes?
So cold...and probably hasn't had a proper meal in days.
If only we'd brought some food with us. But perhaps I could use a little magic to─ No, I mustn't. Gods, this is so frustrating...
