We have you now, you stubborn little shite!
Enough! Leave my little brother alone, or Twelve as my witness, you'll receive such a thrashing as you've never known!
...From this fearsome adventurer here, that is!
Th-That's no ordinary womanman! Retreat!
Are you all right, Nhagi!?
I'm sorry I didn't come when I said I would, Sister... Rest assured I'm not too badly hurt.
Sister...and Forename too!? That you should be the one to come to my aid... Thank you.
Y-You remembered! I've been well! More than well!
So you don't remember me... You can hardly be expected to, I suppose...
I'm sorry I didn't come when I said I would, Sister... Rest assured I'm not too badly hurt.
That's a relief. I'll take a proper look at your wounds back in the city.
It seems you're an adventurer too. Thank you for your help. What's your name, if I may ask?
Forename Surname... I'll remember it. To send your foes running without even drawing your weapon, you're clearly a great adventurer!
I must say, I was quite surprised to learn that you had met Forename...
SheHe helped me when I first arrived in Ul'dah. From registering as an adventurer to completing my first task, shehe kindly showed me the ropes.
Now, I had suspected that you were a great adventurer, but to send your foes running without even drawing your weapon... That's just incredible!
I still have a long way to go, embarrassing myself like I did... If I want Sister's approval, I need to grow stronger and be able to fight on my own...
My approval...?
Ah, but first things first: Bremondt and I have a delivery to make for the Rising.
If you'll excuse us, we will hurry back to Ul'dah.
Let us head back as well. I had a mind to pay the minstrel a visit in any case.
Thanks to you, Nhagi is safe.
Still, what he said about making it on his own weighs on my mind...
Sister was none too gentle dressing my wounds... Perhaps she's annoyed I didn't show up as promised.
Welcome back, my friends. Pleased am I to see that Nhagi is safe and well.
Rising attendants inform me they now have all the letters. With this, we may proceed with the letter forest as planned. Thank you, Nhagi.
I'm so sorry I'm late. You see...
Were it not for Forename, there's no telling what might have become of the letters and Bremondt. In the end, I was utterly useless...
So that is how it happened...
As Nhagi's client, allow me to thank you as well for coming to his aid.
That being said, my boy, you were far from useless. Nay, you bravely defended the carriage until help arrived. There is no need to belittle yourself so.
Well, Forename didn't need to rely on anyone. No, shehe drove off the bandits with nary more than a stern look. I couldn't hold a candle to herhim.
Like herhim, I want to be able to deal with any problem without help. Otherwise I can't claim to be an adventurer worth his salt.
Without help...
Tell me, Nhagi. All this time, have you been working alone? Even for dangerous tasks?
That's right. A worthy adventurer doesn't rely on others. If I'm to be the kind of adventurer you approve of, I must be able to handle anything by myself.
I see...
If that is what you believe, then I can't consent to you being an adventurer any longer. Return to our village and start over.
What? But...you were so happy for me when I became an adventurer!
I'm working so hard to succeed. To prove to you that I have what it takes. But now...
You've developed a grave misconception. Until you recognize what it is, I can't in good conscience approve of your calling.
If you can't accept this─if you wish to remain an adventurer─then you must win me over. And it begins with pondering why you first embarked upon this path.
...All right, Sister. I'll think on this.
It appears Kipih wants her brother to rethink what adventuring is to him. Had the question been posed to you, what answer would you arrive at, I wonder...
I'm sorry you had to see that, Forename...
Despite how it may have appeared, no one wants my brother to succeed more than I do. To succeed and be happy. After all, I know better than any how hard he works.
Unless he changes his ways, however, he is like to die somewhere out there. And even if he manages to stay alive, he would only know an arduous life. That's why I didn't go out of my way to be gentle when dressing his wounds.
If he could just focus on what actually matters... Instead, he obsesses about gaining my approval and compares himself to others... <sigh>
If truth be told, no matter what Nhagi wants to do, it is my intent to support him.
It's his life, after all, and no one else's. It isn't my place to interfere.
Be that as it may, if he is sabotaging his own aspirations with his obsession for my approval, I can't simply stand idly by and watch.
Loath though I am to impose, until my brother has found his answer, might I trouble you to keep an eye on him?
Please take it as a request from me as well. Ever has adventuring been dangerous, and it is more dangerous still for one who spurns help.
Like Kipih, I do not wish for Nhagi to continue on his current path. As a fellow adventurer, please help him find a better way.
Thank you.
Now then, on a related matter, I must pay a visit to the Weavers' Guild, but I will see you again anon. If you'll excuse me...
Nhagi set off this way, so you may find him at the Sapphire Avenue Exchange. We leave him in your capable hands, my friend.
Be it gratitude or encouragement or sympathy, each of these letters bears the wishes of one soul for another.
For Nhagi to work so hard to see them delivered, at heart, I do not believe he rejects connections with others. Nay, something drives him to believe and behave as he does.
I do not agree with Nhagi's belief that, if he is to be an adventurer worth his salt, he can't rely on others.
Lest we forget, adventurers help others through the work they accept. To refuse to accept help in turn not only defies logic─it is saddening.
Oh, it's you, Forename. What is it?
Is that so... I'm sorry. This is really something I should be doing alone. Still, it's nice to have someone to talk to.
Like my sister bade me, I'm pondering why I chose to become an adventurer in the first place.
Kipih has looked after me since I was no more than ten, after our parents passed away.
She was already a reporter by then, and her work took her to various places. From her I heard tales about adventurers and came to admire them.
Upon learning of the full extent of the impending Calamity, she took us to a village in the mountains, where our aunt lived.
“It's desperate times like these that people need stories of hope,” she used to say, and I believe she had wanted to remain in Gridania and continue her work. But she left─in order to keep me safe.
I was a burden to her then. I don't want to be a burden to her again. For that, I need to show her that I don't need to depend on others. That I'm a capable adventurer who can handle anything by himself.
Ponder as I might, I can't understand what's wrong with that.
Well, when it doubt, I suppose I should do what adventurers do and gather information. It would be good, I think, to speak with people like my sister─people who aren't adventurers, but are familiar with them.
Hmmm, who in Ul'dah would fit that description...?
Of course, who else but Miss Momodi!
You mean Wymond? While he's certainly knowledgeable, the kind of information he deals in isn't exactly what I need.
Instead, how about Miss Momodi, the face of the Adventurers' Guild?
You mean the House of Splendors, the place that offers quality gear in exchange for services?
I had better not... Horror stories are rife of people who make the mistake of indebting themselves to the House, becoming forever indentured...
Instead, how about Miss Momodi, the face of the Adventurers' Guild?
In her capacity as guild representative, she's bound to have some valuable insights. I'll seek her out at once!
I still remember when I first came here to sign up. I was a nervous wreck then, but now this place feels like a second home, and I come all the time for crumpets. They make them so springy, and serve them drowning in butter and honey...
...S-Sorry, now isn't the time for that. Come, let's have a chat with Miss Momodi.
Well now, if it isn't young Nhagi...and in the company of another adventurer besides. Strange things do happen. What can I do for you today?
Well now, if it isn't Forename and Nhagi. To what do I owe the pleasure of both your companies today?
I was hoping to get your advice on a certain matter...
The misconception you've developed about being an adventurer... That's an interestin' one, I have to admit.
Try as I might to figure it out, I keep going around in circles. I thought you might be able to offer some insights.
Hmmm...
This is just a gut feeling...but I reckon I understand what your sister's tryin' to say.
Tell me, Nhagi. Suppose you fail to get your sister's approval, would you simply give up being an adventurer? Would it all become meaningless?
From this here counter, I've indeed seen off many an adventurer. Each and every one unique, with dreams and destinations all their own.
But in spite of their differences, they all share something in common─a reason for first embarking upon their journey.
Forename─would you mind tellin' us why you chose the adventurin' life?
Hehe, I see.
Hehe, how very like you. Keep that reason close to your heart now, you hear?
Hehe, I see.
Hehe, how very like you. Keep that reason close to your heart now, you hear?
Is that right? Hehe, how sweet. Keep that friend close now, you hear?
If you're disinclined to share, then I won't pry. To look at you, though, it's plain you've got a proper reason. Keep it close to your heart now, you hear?
And you, Nhagi? What inspired you to become an adventurer?
It's simple, really. I heard about adventurers from my sister, and became infatuated with the lives they led.
Like them, I wanted to be able to see the world while helping those in need.
Then isn't that enough? Your sister's approval or no, you have a reason all your own.
By the Twelve, I see now... At some point, my desire to prove myself to Kipih had displaced my own motive for being an adventurer...
That's the misconception Kipih wanted me to recognize... What a fool I've been...
Wanting someone's approval isn't wrong in and of itself, mind. But it's got nothin' to do with why you're an adventurer.
It shouldn't force you to do things you wouldn't otherwise do, like tryin' to handle everything alone.
Well, that's enough from me for today. I've said my piece─what you do now is up to you, Nhagi.
Thank you for helping me realize, Miss Momodi.
Think nothing of it. It's my job to watch over you all. Nothing makes me happier than to see you happy, doing what you do.
Thank you too, Forename, for accompanying me. I think I know what to say to Kipih now.
And loath though I am to trouble you again, there's something else I'd like your help with.
You see, of the letters we collected in Limsa Lominsa, one was from an explorer who was seeking an escort for an expedition.
By now, that letter should be on display at the Gold Court. I want to show it to my sister, and I'd be grateful if you could help me find it. Come, let's rejoin the minstrel.
Now where is that letter...?
Ah, welcome back. Dare I hope you were able to find the answer?
Yes, I'm happy to say. Miss Momodi helped me to come to a realization. And when I go to speak with my sister...
I see, I see. By all means, feel free to borrow the letter. Does it have any distinguishing characteristics?
As I recall, there was a large drawing of a blue chocobo on it...
Very well. Let us all search together, the more swiftly to find it.
A great many of these letters bear words of thanks for adventurers─a testament to the good that you and yours do out in the world.
“Dear kindly Miqo'te adventurer,Thank you for helping me to find my mother. I was scared at first, but you made me feel brave.
“I had lots of fun at the Gold Saucer, and it was even more fun because of you. I hope to see you again. Please take care.”
Why, it's the lost child from the Gold Saucer! The staff were tied up, so I helped to track down the mother. Hehe, what a fine feeling this is.
