Wisdom of Paragons, almighty is! Perish, unfeathered ones shall!
Creature of the abyss! Mine enemies, strike down!
A voidsent!? Th-This bodes ill!
Hold fast! We almost have him!
Impressive work, adventurer.
The Bowlord bids you hold this position. Enemies may yet lurk near, so stay on your guard.
We go to bolster the left flank, where the battle yet rages.
The source of her strength becomes clear...
You may have bested the golem, but you will not fare so well this day.
O mournful voice of creation! Send unto me a creature of the abyss, my thrall to command, that I may smite mine enemies!
Your very being imperils the plan. You cannot be suffered to live.
Soon, you shall take your vile gifts to the grave!
How is this possible...?
I trust you won't object to our assistance!
Looks like you could do with a hand!
Unwelcome guests... No matter, all shall fall before me!
Whence comes your strength!?
It is past time we finished this!
Come on! We're almost there!
Unnngh... That the wisdom of the Paragons should be brought low...by mere mortals...
...Paragons?
That's what I heard.
The Bringers of Chaos...or Ascians, to give them their proper name.
It would seem our suspicions were correct─it is they who have been manipulating the beast tribes.
Forename, are you unharmed!? Had I known this creature was near, I would have sent men, not called them away!
There is no mistake, sir─he is the one who stirred the Ixal from their nest. Our intelligence was reliable.
So this is the man who has eluded us for so long?
Right! We finally got him!
We sensed an ominous presence, and came here as swiftly as our legs would carry us.
Well, it's good to know what we're up against, anyway.
My thanks as ever, friends.
Quivermen! Move out!
To say you played an instrumental role in the success of this mission would scarcely do justice to your efforts this day, adventurer. Upon your return to Gridania, pray visit me at Quiver's Hold. I will see to it that you receive the thanks you are due.
Hmmm...you're probably wondering why we always seem to appear when there's trouble, right?
Well, trust me when I tell you that it's almost never our fault. Despite what it looks like, Papalymo and I are actually helping the Gridanians. And we've been doing so for a good few years, too. Oh! Did I mention that we're not from around here?
Hm? Why, yes, we are Sharlayans! However did you know?
So I wasn't mistaken...
Mistaken? About what?
Nothing. Nothing at all.
Awww! You always do that! Mumble something loaded with meaning, only to keep it to yourself when someone asks! It's unfair! And it's especially unfair when the someone is me!
Oh, do calm down! I'll tell you later.
Hmph! I bet you won't. Anyway, all's well that ends well.
...Quite. We'd best be on our way.
See you later!
Welcome back, adventurer. Your exploits at the Guardian Tree are the stuff of songs. The Bowlord awaits you within.
I have awaited your return, Forename. Allow me to thank you again for helping us to defend the Guardian Tree.
Not only did you put the invading Ixal to rout─you confronted the masked mage and his fell minion, and emerged the victor.
I have good men and women under me, none of whom give me cause for complaint─but you, Forename, are a class apart.
Your strength, your determination, your heart...
You have all the makings of a great adventurer. Miounne is seldom mistaken in her appraisals, and she is plainly not mistaken now.
Gridania is stronger for your presence. The Elder Seedseer will doubtless be pleased to learn that a capable adventurer like you has come to us.
Once more, I thank you. Owing to your valor, disaster has been averted.
