Good to see you, Captain Surname.
The Scions sent word that you were on your way.
To business, then. It is as we told the Antecedent. The kobolds have once again summoned Titan.
A little over a moon ago, we began to observe the beastmen moving south in increasing numbers from O'Ghomoro.
Our scouts subsequently confirmed the object of their aggression─
Crystals. Fodder for their fell primal.
Thank you, High Commander. You may leave the rest to me.Your deeds bring glory to the Maelstrom, Captain Surname. Right proud am I to call you one of our own.
Forgive the lack of forewarning, High Commander. The Admiral wished to address Forename personally.
We are no strangers to conflict. Long have the Sahagin and the kobolds plagued our people─nor is this the first time we have had to address a primal threat.
In the past, when Titan rose to threaten the peace, it was to the Company of Heroes we turned.
But they are long disbanded, and we must look to other brave souls blessed with the strength to face this foe.
So it is that we turn now to the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, confident in the belief that you are Limsa's best hope.
I hope you are right. Yet the situation is far from simple. The kobolds are not prone to unprovoked aggression. Did not the thalassocracy make a pact with the beastmen that each would keep to their own lands, and that no blood would be shed?
...And was it not the Lominsans who violated this agreement, dissatisfied with their lot? Shall we then condemn the beastmen for defending their homes?
Even a pirate must one day reap what she has sown.
I would advise you to choose your words with greater care, Lady Y'shtola!
Stand down, High Commander. She has the right of it.
And the wrong is mine. Freely do I claim it. Yet it makes little difference. Remorse will not shield us from Titan's wrath....Or would you have us fall upon our swords?
My apologies, Admiral. The safety and security of Limsa Lominsa's citizenry are, of course, of paramount concern.
Already, we have observed disruptions in the flow of aether further inland. The effects will be felt here in the city ere long.
I ask much of you, I know, but the need is great. I trust I can count on you, Captain?
You have my thanks, along with the full support of the Maelstrom. I await good tidings.
That the kobolds should summon Titan demonstrates they are no longer amenable to negotiation.
This being the case, we must needs prepare for conflict. Before we meet Titan in the field, however, it would be wise to learn all we can of our foe. And I can think of no better source of information than the mercenaries who defeated him once before.
The Company of Heroes may be no more, but several of its former members still live. It is said that one of them is employed at the Grey Fleet mills in lower La Noscea.
Quite why a mercenary should choose to become a miller, I do not know. When you find him, mayhap you could ask him for me. I, meanwhile, shall seek his fellows.
