C'mon Fhul, I believe in you!
...But nothing I say seems to help. I wish I knew how to cheer you up...
The lad looks absolutely crestfallen. From what I can gather, he's having some difficulties with the Eorzean Nimble Warrior course. I know what it's like to feel success slip from one's grasp time and again...
You want me to attempt the course? I'm equal to the challenge, you can be sure, but that would mean leaving my charges unprotected.
If you ask me, it looks like the lad needs but a few words of encouragement. Yes, that should do the trick. Forename, wait there─I'll be back in a flash!
You read my mind, Forename! Encouragement is my forte! A few carefully placed words should lift this lad over the obstacle in his path. Wait there─I'll be back in a flash!
I see the wisdom in that, truly I do. But I can't help but recall my own struggles─where would I have ended up if you and Master Haermaga didn't come along with a few encouraging words?
Surely it couldn't hurt, could it? Wait here, Forename─I'll be back before you can think of a reason to object!
The pair were thankful enough, and the lad seemed once again eager to tackle the course. All in all, a success for the Sunshine Savior!
Bloody Carvallain, thinks he's too good for a pirate, does he?
I'll make him see, I will. If I just ask him all nice-like...
“Fancy a stroll on the beach, Carvallain?” or some such... Bah, he'll just think I'm itchin' fer a duel!
She's mumbling to herself an awful lot. The menacing provocations of a pirate, no doubt. What do you think, Forename?
I think you have the right of it, Forename. Even I can see that this has the look of something dangerous. I'd best insinuate myself into the matter before it takes a turn.
The pirate ran off with nary a word of explanation. I can't help but feel as if I interrupted something... Ah, well, there's no telling what could've happened, so as far as I'm concerned, the Sunshine Savior can mark down a victory in his ledger.
Ah, you're right! Anyone staring daggers like that can only have ill intent. I'll warn the man at once!
The pirate ran off with nary a word of explanation. I can't help but feel as if I interrupted something... Ah, well, there's no telling what could've happened, so as far as I'm concerned, the Sunshine Savior can mark down a victory in his ledger.
Are you certain? This has the scent of danger...or perhaps something foul has washed ashore. Ah, no matter, I shall trust your advice. It's what you're here for, after all!
Hmm, I'm beginning to understand. She wishes to say something, but it's caught in her throat like a bone.
...Ah, she's given up. Judging from her manner, she may have the same reservations as I concerning showing her face to others. A kindred spirit, in need of aid...
Alas, I have but a single mask, so I couldn't have helped even if I wanted. But you knew all of that, didn't you? Remarkable foresight, my friend, truly remarkable!
Well, I see nothing amiss in this area. What about over there?
And now our watch begins! Go on, Forename, tell me what you see. If there is trouble lurking about, the Sunshine Savior shall rise to action!
