We...have gained the power...take back...rightfully ours.
What? Emperor Varis?
They are being tempered! The talismans─quickly!
Save me, brave hero!
Ahem! My lord has requested your presence, and I would hate to disappoint him...
The experiment was a success, but I fear our time is short.
I shall begin the preparations.
Now...it is time for you to awaken.
Good morrow to you. Here─have a taste before it gets cold.
Oh, but be sure to remove your helmet. Take a moment, too, to familiarize yourself with that borrowed flesh.
So? How does it feel? I, for one, find those first moments within a new body to be most refreshing!
We had a magitek engineer by the name of Aulus to thank for this method of soul extraction and implantation. I believe the two of you met briefly in Ala Mhigo?
His was a rather sticky end, wasn't it? Thankfully, he was thoughtful enough to leave behind his mindjack technology. I took the liberty of making some improvements─and selecting you as my esteemed test subject.
And permit you to go on a righteous rampage instead of partaking in this delicious meal? I think not.
Come now, to us Ascians, it is no different from trying on new clothes. Why not make the most of it by partaking in this fine cuisine?
I must say, I have gone to great lengths to reunite you with my lord.
When I discovered that his “friend” was in this neck of the woods, I suggested inviting you over for dinner.
He never deigned to respond, but I took his silence as a resounding yes!
Oh my! Daddy is pleased his grumpy little boy has finally found his playmate!
Ah. Exposition is in order.
The Garlean Empire has long outlawed all forms of religion. No gods to worship, no risk of summoning. Brilliantly simple.
But people, being people, must turn to something or someone in their hour of need. Who, then?
Why, His Radiance the Emperor, of course.
As you have observed firsthand, Garlemald has seen better days. The legendary Solus zos Galvus─dead. Provinces near and far─in open rebellion. Our bold new Emperor─assassinated! And that last one even sparked a civil war! What rotten luck.
The people cried out for salvation, their earnest pleas─one might even call them prayers─a supplication united for the Empire to reclaim her former glory.
And so their will did manifest, channeled through the corpse of none other than Emperor Varis himself!
And lo, the savior was born! The embodiment of the Garlean spirit, their Anima!
It calls to its subjects, compelling them to take up arms and fight.
And just as the wealth and power gravitate towards the Empire's capital, so too does aether, from every corner of the globe!
The towers with which you and your allies have been so preoccupied were created as an extension of Anima itself. An ingenious design...
Would you not agree, my lord?
Does the pursuit of prey you have bested before excite you?
Of course not. Absent the challenge, the thrill, your prize is a hollow victory. Butchery.
Perhaps you think that to be the extent of my promise. I have no doubt fallen in your estimation since Ala Mhigo.
Fair enough. But do not let your disdain deprive you─deprive us─of an opportunity to craft an even more majestic moment of euphoria.
I have been honing my craft as I set the stage for our reunion.
Wheresoever there is suffering and despair, you appear, to fulfill your duty as defender of this star.
The chaos and destruction that my hordes have wrought...are my gifts to you alone.
At a loss for words? No matter. As you will learn, I have only just begun.
Oh? Will you not finish your meal?
There is only one thing that can sate my hunger, and it would seem my friend has lost her appetite.
I hoped this display of civility might prove an entertaining diversion, but clearly we are above such pretensions.
While my lifeless body was in the possession of the Ascian, I too claimed another's as my own.
It was an enlightening experience, to fight in an unfamiliar form. Flaws and failings in my technique were plain to see.
Whence rises one's true strength? The flesh? The soul? Perhaps you should like to discover the answer for yourself.
Or...together.
Oh dear! Whatever would happen if my lord were to greet your friends as you? I shudder to imagine what carnage he would wreak!
We'd better hurry if we want to avert the bloodbath. You can thank me later for my generosity.
Ah, there it is. Your camp, I believe.
If I were to hazard a guess, I would say that you─the other you─is making her way there as we speak.
Alas, this you will have to walk from here. Or run, if you can manage it. My lord would be cross if I made it too easy.
Such ingratitude. I'd not squander this fighting chance. After all, you've obstacles enough to overcome─right on cue!
Tempered soldiers, with standing orders to kill those not sworn to Anima.
Under normal circumstances you would make short work of them. But on this occasion, the odds are not so heavily stacked in your favor.
Quickly now!
Come along!
