The satrap has granted you the use of this boat. May it serve you well!
This is a rather finer boat than I had expected, but I won't complain.
All that remains is to board and be on our way. Oh, and if I should become corrupted, do not stay your hand. Of course I pray it does not come to that, but you must protect yourself.
Other alchemists can fulfill my role, but you and your blessing are one of a kind...and perhaps our only hope for toppling this tower. For all our sakes, do not hesitate to do what must be done. Whatever that may be.
...Well, the longer I draw this out, the more nervous I become. Let's be off!
We should soon cross the threshold of the tower's influence...
Any moment now...
It's working!
And you─you are still yourself? Then I'd like to see how it fares closer to the tower, if we could.
So far, so good. The scale's protection appears to be holding. If we can just make it to the tower's entrance...
A few more steps!
Praise be to the Sisters! We made it! And the scale has proven itself to be everything we hoped it would be.
Now we can focus on production. Once we've equipped and returned with an entire survey team, this menace will soon give up its secrets!
What─!?
Aaah!
Let me go! ...Let me go! Rrrgh!
Oh, do calm down. You'll only hurt yourself thrashing about like that.
Stop! You can't do this! Please!
A little late for heroics, I'm afraid.
Hmm...the similarities are striking.
My, my, such hostility. Never before has my artistry so displeased.
My patrons of old would've positively squealed in delight! Though, between you and me, I find gushing praise exhausting.
Allow me to tell you a story. Surely you've yet to hear the one about Fandaniel, the sundered Ascian.
I inherited the position─and the soul─of the Fandaniel who sat on the Convocation in the time of the Final Days. Theoretically speaking.
Practically speaking, that fact is of no consequence! I was born and lived as...well. Me.
Eventually I was recruited into the Ascians and imbued with the former Fandaniel's knowledge and memories, but I never felt that they were truly a part of who I am.
How to explain? Perhaps if I told you who I was before my Ascian embrace. Although that chapter, too, is a past I've long since discarded.
I have it on good authority you've poked your nose into an Allagan ruin or two, yes?
Then I expect you've heard of me. The old me.
Amon, at your service.
Imagine a nation of unbridled prosperity.
Every need, met; day after day of unbroken, unshakable peace.
Existence, fulfilled.
And ripe for decay.
