I have been entrusted with a message meant for you and your companions. When you are done speaking amongst yourselves, I would share it with you.
That soldier of the Radiant there─if I am not mistaken, he accompanied Ahewann to Vanaspati. Could it be that he knew Vrtra's identity all along...?
We have no better, safer course of action to offer them than fleeing to the moon. I know this. And yet, Vrtra and his people love their home. There must be something we can do...
Under normal circumstances, the Forum's proposal would be regarded as sheer madness. But when the sky burns, even madness can sound appealing.
Doubtless Vrtra is loath to abandon his home. And yet, absent other options, he cannot dismiss the option out of hand...
Even were Vrtra to acquiesce to their proposal, just how do the Sharlayans intend to transport the nation's entire populace to the moon?
Their solution sits ill with me. But if life has taught me anything, it's that there is little to be gained from arguing with Sharlayans. We must take it upon ourselves to find a better way.
As far as we have come─and after all the horrors we have seen─there is still so much we do not know about the Final Days.
Could it be as Nidhana said? That the cause of this phenomenon is beyond our comprehension? And, if so...are we powerless to forestall it?
No matter what my father and the Forum say, giving up and abandoning this place cannot be our only recourse!
Greetings, honored Scions of the Seventh Dawn. I have a message from His Excellency the satrap.
“Brave Scions. You have my gratitude for aiding my people in this most trying of times.
“Alas, matters here at Meghaduta prevent me from meeting you all in person.
“As a token of mine appreciation, I have arranged for a feast to be held in your honor. May it nourish you in preparation for the trials ahead.”
...Such are the words of Master Vrtra. The feast he speaks of awaits you at Mehryde's Meyhane. Pray make your way there whenever your business here is done.
We thank you for your kindness. Indeed, I was hoping we might find a place to discuss our next course of action, and that seems an ideal venue.
Ah, and to you, Forename Surname. There is someone we had hoped to introduce to you in particular.
While I am loath to detain you further, might you spare a moment of your time?
A personal invitation, knowing full well your services are in the highest demand right now? This must be important. Worry not─we'll save some food for you, so take all the time you need.
Thank you, friend. Whenever you are ready, please join me in the aetheryte plaza. I shall go on ahead.
Thank you, friend. Whenever you are ready, please join me in the aetheryte plaza. I shall go on ahead.
Access to the aetheryte you see there has been restricted to a select few ever since the tower first appeared.
We sincerely apologize for the inconvenience, but it was deemed too dangerous to permit the free movement of visitors at a time of emergency─a risk we could not take.
In light of recent developments, however, the satrap has decided that such restrictions would only hinder our efforts to combat the Final Days.
As such, I would encourage you to attune with the aetheryte before proceeding along the corridor.
