...Don't know you, traveler. You a merchant? You'll not find much custom here.
Greetings and well met, elder, and sincerest apologies that I did not send word ahead of our arrival. Too long have I been away from Ala Gannha, and I would know of your recent troubles.
Ah, you are comrades of Meffrid. I see, I see...
Speak on, though I suspect I know your purpose.
The Griffin came with many men, and left with many more. Such is the rumor. Is it true?
He lit a fire in their hearts and then dangled a dream before their tired eyes. And now you come to steal away what few remain.
The Griffin was a traitor and a madman, and we had no part in his schemes. We have made an agreement with the Alliance─this time it will be different!
This time? This time!? Cold comfort to the dead and the ones they left behind! How much more must we give before you've had your fill?
But...but surely you hate the Empire as much as we do!?
They took our lands, our traditions, even our god. And they demand a fifth of what little we've got left. Aye, I hate the bastards. With every fiber of my being.
But hate's not enough, Meffrid. I can't...we can't keep doing this. I'll not tell anyone you came, but you need to go. Now. Leave us be, and never return.
You've got no right to speak to us like that─
I've got a quarry that was producing barely enough to keep us fed, and that was before half our young men and women went off to die for your bloody cause!
So yes, I've got every right to tell you to leave my village!
...No. You don't. Because it's my village too. My home!
What in the hells are you on about─
Wait... I know those eyes. You're one of Curtis's girls!
Lyse. Lyse Hext. And I'm here...I'm here to take back my homeland.
By Rhalgr, the last time I saw you, you were... I didn't even know if you were still alive... And I never thought you would come─
I almost didn't. And my sister never will. Lots of others won't either...and that's why we've got to carry on the fight.
You even sound like him...  As you say, I've got no right to tell you to leave. Ala Gannha is as much your home as it is mine.
But I say to you again: we can give no more.
Yes, I heard you the first time.
Let's go.
That could've been handled better, but what's done is done. At least we've been granted permission to stay.
I was hoping Raganfrid might help us to recruit some of his people, but that clearly isn't going to happen. If we're to convince any of them to join, we'll first need to regain their trust.
It's risky, and it's hardly subtle, but I say we approach the villagers directly─see what problems they've got, and if we can do anything to help.
Makes sense to me. Let's split up and ask around.
