Bring her out! Bring her out!
What's going on!?
Someone let slip about Fordola...
It's true then! The bitch really is in there! I knew it! I bloody knew it!
We demand vengeance! Bring her out! Today we butcher the Butcher!
Butcher the...? Come on, you don't mean that. We'd be no better than the imperials! If you'd all just calm down─
Calm down!? That monster and her thrice-damned Skulls dragged my man from our home and beat him to death in the street!
Aye! And my dad! That bitch has spilt enough blood to fill a loch!
We all know her crimes! She's a traitor and a murderer! How many of your Resistance friends have died at her hands, eh? And here you are protecting her!
So that's what all the fuss is about...
Hearken to me, brothers and sisters of Ala Mhigo!
Hey, who's this?
That's...that's the bull of Ala Mhigo.
My friends─you are not alone in your anger, your grief, your despair, for it is mine as well!
That gnawing pain in your breast...it is enough to bring an old bull to his knees.
But I ask you, brothers and sisters, to think not only of the family and friends who were cut down before your very eyes, but to think also of the ones who were abducted─the ones who may yet live!
Where were they taken? What became of them? These questions demand answers!
I share your thirst for justice. For vengeance.
But we will gain only fleeting satisfaction if we give in to our base appetites─we will never know the truth!
Now is the time that we, the people of Ala Mhigo, must decide what manner of nation we will build for ourselves, and for generations yet unborn.
When they look to our example, will they see a people who held fast to their principles, or one who cast them aside when tried?
I say to you, it is our responsibility to give these prisoners a fair trial, that they might answer to all of Ala Mhigo! The Garleans called us savages, and I'll be damned if we prove them right!
I know you're right, I do, but...I can't...
My thanks, Raubahn. Listening to their anger, I could feel myself being swept away...
'Tis a difficult tide to stem. 'Twas that same rage which brought us to our feet, and carried us to victory. But now the war is over, all the unspent fury is being channeled into vengeance.
Aye, and it's not just here─we've reports of mobs forming all over.
They've been targeting folk known to have cooperated with the Garleans. It starts with insults most often, then someone picks up a stone...
Some industrious souls even thought to seek out the graves of Zenos and his officers. It was...grim.
I want to build a country where everyone, regardless of race or origin, can live side by side in peace. But maybe the time isn't right. Maybe people just aren't ready...
But that doesn't mean I'm not going to try. The representatives will be here soon, and I'll be damned if I'm going to give up before I've even begun.
Who are these representatives exactly?
Oh, village elders, refugee leaders and the like. It wouldn't be right for us to dictate the nation's future on our own, so we've planned a summit of sorts.
We've even invited the Ananta and the Qiqirn to participate.
Ala Mhigo stands at a crossroads, and this meeting will decide which path it takes. The matter of Fordola's sentence cannot be suffered to disrupt proceedings.
Then let's execute her and be done with it. She herself asked to be put to death.
Naago! I already explained why we wouldn't do that!
Sending her to the gallows might satisfy people right now, but where would it end? Should we round up everyone who collaborated? And everyone who didn't resist? There would be no one left! And we'd be no better than Theodoric and Zenos!
Begging your pardon, but...might I be allowed to speak with Fordola? Only, I caught a glimpse of her past. A moment of it, anyway─during the fight.
She's done terrible things, aye...unforgivable things... But...in some ways, she's a victim of the circumstances in which she was born. And that's something I can understand...
All right. Speak with the prison guard when you're ready, and I'll come and join you. I want to talk to her too.
I'll return to my other duties, then─we've barely begun to investigate the facility where they gave Fordola her powers. Be fairly warned, friends: she will test you. Don't let your emotions color your judgment when she does.
