Oh, you're the one who helped us the other day!
Wawlika and the others are out investigating, and they've confirmed that Nitowikwe is safe.
It was after the train had begun its journey back here that the dome appeared.
So those who were riding the train then are fine, but we don't know what's become of those who disembarked in Yyasulani...
<sigh> What a mess. And just after we finished fixing the tracks.
I'll be sure to tell the chief you stopped by when they return.
You heard about the spearman as well?
That couldn't be anyone else...
What's this? Someone spreading more gossip about me?
Talk of how I saved the town travels fast, hahaha!
That's not to discount the help of my friend here, of course. We gave those machines a real beating!
I thought you'd come sooner or later. Do you know what's happening?
So you were indeed the one keeping the people safe! Thank you.
Think nothing of it. The automata aren't particularly strong.
But are the rumors true? Gulool Ja Ja is slain?
I'm afraid so... Zoraal Ja used some dirty trick to get the better of him...
We'll make him pay for what he's done, mark my words.
You're going to help her, I assume?
I see. With your contingent, you won't lack for strength. In which case, I will remain in Shaaloani and keep an eye on things.
That helps us more than you know! I'll send word to my brother before we set off. If you find yourself in trouble, don't hesitate to contact Koana.
Koana? Brother?
Wait a second! You're the Vow of Resolve!?
I am. And you're Zekowa, right? I'll be counting on you to keep everyone here safe.
Absolutely! If more of those hollow men show up, I'll send them packing!
I'm the fastest gun in Shaaloani, after all. Forename can attest to that.
Glad to hear it. We leave Shaaloani in your capable hands.
Let's get patrolling right away, then!
Stay safe out there, and don't do anything reckless.
...Wasted words, eh? Just do what comes naturally.
Right then, it's time we headed to the station and joined the others.
It seems the people of Shaaloani are safe. What a relief.
It seems those soldiers only appeared in Sheshenewezi Springs. Could they have been after the ceruleum?
Mehwahhetsoan is still safe, but the animals are unsettled by recent events.
Raha and I visited the settlements west of here. Thankfully, there was no damage or casualties to speak of.
The dome is absolutely massive. What manner of kingdom do you suppose he's claimed within its borders?
I heard from Wuk Lamat that Estinien was here.
With him to watch over them, the people of Shaaloani will have naught to fear.
Thanks to Estinien, there were no casualties to speak of in Shaaloani.
The Hhetsarro were safe as well. At the very least, there were no sightings of soldiers there.
What about the dome? Did you learn anything of note?
It is composed of exceedingly high concentrations of lightning energy.
To even touch the barrier would prove fatal. When approaching it, we must exercise all caution.
Then how are we supposed to get inside? If Zoraal Ja and his army emerged from within, there ought to be an entrance...
An entrance, you say? It so happens we might have an inkling where one is.
These are the engineers of Xak Tural Railing, which operates the train between Shaaloani and Yyasulani.
When we went out to recover the train, we had ourselves a look at the dome through a telescope.
It was then that we saw it: a large fortress-like structure that looked like it straddled the dome's edge!
You're telling us part of it is inside, and part of it outside?
That seemed to be the case, yes. While we only observed from afar, the soldiers were coming and going from it. From that, I'd say it serves as a passage between the outside world and whatever's inside.
But as you'd expect, the area was heavily defended. It won't be easy to get near.
Do you know what became of the passengers who went to Yyasulani? Wuk Lamat's nursemaid was among them, a woman named Namikka.
What!?
I'm afraid not. Only those passengers who were headed back here are accounted for.
I can say for a fact that everything was fine when we arrived in Yyasulani.
But when that big tremor struck not long after we left the station, I hit the emergency brakes and looked back, and all I could see was the dome.
What's more, the fortress sits right on the tracks of all places. What are the odds of that, eh?
Assuming this fortress serves as a means to pass through the dome, we should first determine how we're to reach it undetected.
I don't care if we're detected. I say we smash our way inside.
Despite how it sounds, I actually gave this some thought. Zoraal Ja wants me to prove that I'm Father's worthy successor. If I fail, he'll destroy Tuliyollal.
By charging in head-on, I make my intentions plain as day, and in so doing keep his eyes on me.
A bold strategy. I like it!
Of course, your plan'll be no good if you're cut down before reaching their base.
What you need is something that'll get you there quick and break through their defenses with a single, decisive blow─and we have just that.
Since the tracks go straight to the fortress, we can reinforce our train with armor, load her with all the fuel she'll carry, and send her hurtling at it to explode on impact!
Chief, have you gone insane!?
You were just saying how relieved you were the train's in one piece. And now you want to turn it into a bomb!?
The train's not important! Our dream was to have railroads running from coast-to-coast, remember?
If these invaders have their way, there may not be any more railroads, let alone trains to run on them. Is that what you want!?
It's a sacrifice we have to make.
These good folks are willing to put their lives on the line to get inside that dome and put a stop to all this. The least we can do is help them.
But Chief...
Listen. No matter how hard things may get, no matter how many times we fall, we can always get back up.
As long as we're alive, we can always build another train. So have faith─and quit your complaining!
But what if we fall really, really hard? There's no getting back up if we're dead...
No one's dying on this train. I'll see to it myself.
Needless to say, this'll be a one-way trip, and we'll need to jump off at the last moment if we don't want to go out in a blaze of glory.
You alright with that?
There's no changing her mind, is there?
Just promise me you'll be careful out there, honey.
I'll hold you to it. Can't start a family business without her, much less a family.
Seeing as I've never had a drink in my life, I certainly hope not.
It'd be a lie to say the loss of the train doesn't concern me.
But with good friends, and my loving wife beside me, that's all I really need in the end.
Well, at least it'll go down as the legendary train that saved Tural.
That it will. But first, we've got work to do so she'll look the part.
I don't know much about magitek, but if there's anything I can do to help, you need but say the word.
We'll keep that in mind.
If any of you are willing and able to lend a hand, there's work that needs doing over at the storehouse.
It seems we have a path forward. I believe this is a good time for me to return to Tuliyollal and inform Koana of the situation.
I shall return as well. I have new investigations to pursue.
The dome's elemental aspect is similar to that of the gate in the golden city. If we can identify a connection, we may learn something of use in our fight.
It's one mystery after the next, but at least we're not without clues. It may not be easy, but I know we can get through this together.
Well, we have our plan. Now let's finish this train and blast our way into the dome.
The ships seem content to remain waiting in the skies, so let us take this opportunity to do what we can and prepare.
To use this train as an explosive is a brazen plan. We'll have but one attempt, so we had best make it count!
I hope Namikka is safe...
Even only just having met them, I can see how important the train is to Wawlika and the engineers.
We can't let their sacrifice be for nothing.
We'll make this plan work─see if we don't!
While I have no objections to the plan itself, I have one concern.
How can we be certain Zoraal Ja will not strike Tuliyollal in retaliation?
I considered the possibility.
But when my brother told me to come and prove myself, he meant it.
He wants to show that his kingdom is superior to Tuliyollal, and it'll give him no satisfaction to attack when he knows I'm not there.
No, he'll be waiting inside the dome. Waiting for us to challenge him so he can crush us and prove his strength.
Indeed... If anything, we're more likely to put Tuliyollal in danger by not taking the fight to him.
So we indulge Zoraal Ja. At least, until Tuliyollal has shored up its defenses.
Right. We'll charge in from the front and keep his eyes on us.
During which time Koana will find a way to fortify Tuliyollal.
If you believe this is the best course, then we shall trust in your judgment.
I expect there will be no small amount of enemy resistance, but we will do all in our power to assist you.
Thank you.
Well, time is of the essence. Let's go and see what's left to be done for the train.
Zoraal Ja's forces remain quiet for now. If there is any movement, I'll alert everyone immediately.
Hmmm. Where to begin?
Shenza has given me a list of materials. We'll see to it they have everything they need!
It's a shame Cid and his engineers aren't here to help. If they were here, I expect they'd turn it into a flying train.
Everyone's hard at work on the train. I can't wait to see how it turns out.
Looks like work is getting underway. We'll finish in no time at all!
So what can we do to help? No need to hold back!
As I understand it, the two of you met your fair share of craftsmen during the rite of succession.
Would you happen to know a few who'd be willing to come and help us complete modifications to the train?
Of course! What sort of craftsmen did you have in mind?
Let's see now...
Perhaps my greatest concern is keeping the train safe from enemy attacks.
Even with you all aboard to fend them off, it'd be over in an instant if they managed to get just one good hit on the ceruleum tanks.
According to eyewitnesses, the soldiers use lightning-based weapons, so I've a mind to install grounding rods. Would you happen to know a carpenter who could handle that?
A master carpenter from Ok'hanu, eh? If they'd be willing, we'd be glad to have them.
No objections from me. Just be sure not to forget their traditional greeting...
Heh, you mean Wuk Evu. While he has his quirks, there's no questioning his carpentry!
A master carpenter from Ok'hanu, eh? If they'd be willing, we'd be glad to have them.
But we'll need more than just a carpenter if we want this done in a timely fashion.
We've got a lot of equipment that needs moving. Heavy equipment. I don't suppose you know anyone up to the task?
Fonjeantaine? That's...certainly a choice.
But I wouldn't exactly call him strong. For a task like this, I think we should ask someone like, say, Zurmurwur.
Zurmurwur would be perfect! We'd be hard-pressed to find folks stronger than the Yok Huy, and I'm sure he'd be willing to help.
You're friends with the Yok Huy? I'll be damned. We'll not want for strength with help like that.
Next, I'd like to outfit the train with some powerful weaponry of its own.
Like as not, the soldiers will be riding their flying vessels. We'll need countermeasures to deal with them.
That's true... I for one can't use magic, nor am I handy with a firearm like my brother.
Any ideas for ranged weapons we can use?
Guns, eh? While they'd be suitable in theory, it takes no ordinary marksman to hit a flying target.
So it'd need to be something that doesn't require that level of skill and precision. But weapons aren't exactly my field of expertise...
Ballistas, eh? While they'd be powerful, it seems to me it'd take too long to reload between shots.
If there were some sort of ballista that could reload quickly, then that might work. But weapons aren't exactly my field of expertise...
Perhaps I can be of assistance.
The Crystarium employed aetheric cannons for its defenses, and I see no reason why the design cannot be adopted for your train.
While I did not conceive them myself, I know their design. It should be possible to build them here, provided we have the requisite materials and skilled smiths.
Now, that sounds like something Fonjeantaine can help with. What are the materials we need?
The barrel can be fashioned from any metal, so long as it's highly conductive to aether. To power the cannon, we will require fire-aspected crystals of the highest purity.
Fire crystals, eh? Might be as the miners over at the Springs can help with that.
Then if I could leave the crystals and smiths in everyone's hands, I shall get started drawing up the schematics.
Right then, I'll secure us the smiths.
In the meantime, could you deal with the materials? Shenza is in charge of our supplies, so it might be good to talk to him about it first.
Well, I think we're set for a plan! Thanks for the consultation!
Now let's get this train dressed up, and give her the proper farewell she deserves!
Right. Time to put my knowledge gained in the First to use.
Hehe, the plan's coming together!
To make good speed, I'm going to try and enlist some more help from among our friends back in Yok Tural.
I'll leave the materials in your care. I think I saw Shenza over to the southeast.
That should be enough lumber for the armor. What else do we need...?
Oh! Sorry, I didn't see you there. What can I do for you?
Aetheric cannons? Interesting. I have an idea where we can get the conductive metal, so I'll take care of it.
I'm not sure about the fire crystals, though. Might be best if you spoke directly with a miner. Can I leave that to you?
Great!
You're friends with Iyaate, aren't you? One of the best miners around. If anyone can get you the crystals you're after, it's her.
Iyaate is sure to get you all the fire crystals you'd ever want, and then some.
Oh, Forename. What brings you around these parts?
The purest fire crystals, you say?
I think I heard tell about them before, but what was that about...?
Now I remember─cerule analas!
You can find them to the south of town. They actually ingest fire crystals and keep them in their gut, if you can believe it!
If you want the purest crystals, though, you'll have to go after the oldest, toughest analas. Nothing you can't handle, right?
I'll show you where you can find some to hunt. Looking forward to seeing why Erenville thinks so highly of you.
There's quite a lot of fiery wildlife in these parts. We think it's due to the ceruleum, but no one can say for sure.
Still, it's not often that you see the bigger, dominating sort─and that's what you need.
What you'll have to do is hunt down a few of their kind. Establish yourself as a threat─that's known to draw out the leader.
That's the spirit! While you're on the hunt, I'll keep watch nearby to make sure no hapless travelers come stumbling in.
The leaders are certain to show up if you kill a few of the common ones. It's only a matter of when.
The leaders are certain to show up if you kill a few of the common ones. It's only a matter of when.
The leaders are certain to show up if you kill a few of the common ones. It's only a matter of when.
The leaders are certain to show up if you kill a few of the common ones. It's only a matter of when.
Amazing! You dealt with the beasts in no time at all!
You need the crystals delivered to Shenza? I'll see that he gets it.
These fire crystals are for the train, aren't they?
I heard about your plans to enter the dome.
I want to thank you for going to such lengths to stop these invaders.
And though he'd grumble if he knew I was asking this, please take care of Elene'shpya.
Anyway, I'd best be on my way─and you as well. In case you're going to meet her, I saw Wuk Lamat heading for the station.
Taken care of the crystals, have you? Things proceed apace here too.
Shenza told me you got the crystals for him. Good work!
I've just returned from looking for extra help. We'll see in a moment who answers the call!
All will be in readiness for them when they arrive.
Dammit... I'm idle for a moment, and all I can think about is my home...
Keep your chin up, Erenville. We'll be on our way soon, and we'll find your mother.
It'll be good to see her after all these years. There's so much I'd like to ask her about her time together with Papa.
Oh, she'll talk your ears off. Once my mother starts, there's no stopping her.
I wouldn't want it any other way!
Right, let's return to helping where we can! The real work begins when the extra hands arrive!
Thanks for making the trek here. To be honest, I wasn't expecting so many of you!
Since the attack on Tuliyollal, I had been wondering if there was aught I could do to help.
So when I heard about the upcoming operation from Vow Koana, I leapt at the chance to do my part!
Peace will be restored, and then we can all enjoy a nice cup of mezcal!
This is our home, and we'll do whatever it takes to keep it safe.
While I assist with the efforts here, High Luminary Gurfurlur does the same at the capital.
I'm truly grateful!
With all of us working together, there's nothing we can't accomplish!
Let's get to it, my friends!
Yes. Let's get to it.
Alright, everyone! That'll do it!
You've done your part. Leave it to us to finish mounting the armor and cannons, and have yourselves a hard-earned rest.
Thank you all again for answering the call.
No need for thanks, now! Whenever you need help, just give us a holler!
Indeed. We must all do our part when our nation is imperiled.
Hear, hear! We love Tural, and we love you, Vow Wuk Lamat!
I love you all too! Your kindness and goodwill will not be in vain, this I promise!
Thanks again for all your help. Wouldn't have been able to finish so quickly without you.
Go and rest up, friend. Won't be long before the train's ready.
From here on out, we won't stop working till the train's ready.
If you have any preparations, now would be a good time to see to them. The boarding call will come before you know it!
Right, we're just about done with the modifications. But I have to stress that we cannot afford a test run.
It's fine─we understand and accept the risks. We have faith in you and your craft.
I'm sure everything will go to plan. With all the hard work everyone's put in, it couldn't be otherwise!
Finished at last!!!
Behold, the pinnacle of locomotive engineering─the Dawnblazer!
Amazing!
Yep, she's been fitted with wooden armor and a crystal grounding rod to mitigate the effects of lightning. Naturally, we had to overhaul the engine so it could handle the extra weight.
I also had her outfitted with aetheric cannons, the better to contend with enemy forces. And as they're modeled upon those used at the Crystarium, I can attest to their potency.
So, what do you reckon? Given the tight turnaround, I'd say we did a damn good job.
Glad she's to your liking. I hate to let go of such a beautiful piece of machinery, but I know you'll give her a proper send-off for us.
At the risk of spoiling the mood, we should probably get moving.
Yep. You won't get far if you let 'em pummel you from the air, but you'll be safe enough once you reach the tunnel.
In that case, I will conceal the train with a spell once everyone is on board.
It should last long enough for us to reach the tunnel unnoticed.
Right. So everyone─are we ready!?
We've done all we can. Rest is up to you.
I won't let you down!
All aboard!
Vanish!
At this speed, we should arrive at the dome in no time at all!
But not before we're spotted, I expect. Stay alert!
Here we go.
Stand fast, everyone!
No you don't!
Have care! They've switched to firearms!
Oh dear...
Raha! Jump!
Erenville! I need you to take over for me!
End of the line, everyone!
Stubborn little─!
That was too close...
Still alive, Erenville?
Mostly...
At last, the enemy stronghold... We should hurry before they can regroup.
Let's go and find out what's inside!
The rest is up to you now. I can make my own way back, so don't worry about me. Take care and good luck!
I'll remain out of sight until the fighting is over. At the risk of repeating myself, try not to do anything reckless.
There's no way Zoraal Ja will be able to ignore our explosive entrance.
The idea of venturing into enemy territory is daunting, but I believe I'm ready. Or as ready as I'll ever be...
Just a little further and we'll be inside the dome!
We couldn't have made it this far without the train. Let us see to it we go the rest of the way.
Let's get inside, quickly!
