Pfff... Pfffkohhh... Rakorok can't meet his obligations without more helphands! The potpact is broken and the pots are emptying!
You've come to aid Rakorok!? Rakorok accepts your hand-lending with joyous feelsmiles!
If we can offer the potsworn their promised goodliving, we might save the day yet.
Whatever you need!
First we'll solve this problem for the Moblins, then we'll see about completing their feat!
Pfff... Pfffkohhh... What Rakorok needs is for new helphands to create goodliving for potsworn Kaahe.
The helphand assigned to Kaahe was hurt during the rockrain, so Rakorok took over...but he knows nothing of Kaahe.
What does Kaahe want? What does Kaahe need? Helphands do not bother the potsworn with straightasks! Our job is to observe and anticipate─to prepare things with guessthink!
Please, guessthink with Rakorok. Find out what Kaahe is lacking so we can provide it!
You can count on us!
Kaahe is only one of many potsworn in need of caretaking. We work through the night with no sleep and no rest, but there are too few of us to go around!
This is where Kaahe works, is it?
Let's take a peek inside, then.
That must be Kaahe. It'd be a lot quicker if we could just talk to him, but that's not the way they do things around here, apparently.
We'll have to leave him be, and try our hand at some “guessthink.”
Well, he has no shortage of crafting materials. There must be something else he's missing.
Those tools are looking pretty worn down. Maybe it's time for some new ones...?
He must be boiling sitting so close to the furnace, and there's no airflow to speak of. How could anyone work in that stifling heat?
He's barely touched his meal! That dish is meant to be eaten hot, or it loses its savor...
Alright, after taking a good look, I think I have an idea of what things Kaahe might want to improve his working conditions.
Let's head back outside and talk to Rakorok.
Come on, let's share what we observed with Rakorok!
Pfff... Kohhh... You made your observations? What did you guessthink?
First off, I noticed Kaahe hasn't touched his food, and an empty belly can't be good for his concentration.
Maybe the cooking isn't to his liking?
But our food is very mouthpleasing! Why wouldn't he want to eat it?
Argh, but Rakorok is sure of nothing when it comes to Kaahe's tastes!
I can help you with that. My brother Koana is also Hhetsarro, and while everyone has their personal preferences, there are some they tend to share.
Like an aversion to piping hot dishes. If it was brought to him like that, Kaahe probably wouldn't have been able to eat until it cooled down, and by the time he came back to it, he might've found it cold and unappetizing.
The simplest solution is to serve dishes that taste good no matter the temperature!
Rakorok never would have thought of that! Would the Third Promise mind explaining these things to our cook?
Not at all. But I don't think that was the only reason Kaahe couldn't concentrate.
The Hhetsarro homeland is hot and dry, but even Kaahe seemed to be suffering in front of that furnace. Is there any way you could cool down the workshop?
Oh, we could try a draftyshard. They make a lovely breeze!
Do you know where we can get one of those?
You can gather them from the Shoals of No Return. There are many old boats there, abandoned by those who gave up on their search for the golden city.
So we salvage them from the wrecks. Could you handle that for us, Forename?
Oh, and one more thing. From what I could tell, Kaahe's files and saws and things were very worn down─maybe a new set of tools is in order?
Ahhh! Rakorok was too preoccupied with stocking materials─a serious oversight which he will rectify! Supplying good tools for goodliving is a helphand's responsibility!
Then we all have work to do! We can meet back here when our tasks are done.
The Shoals of No Return are past the crags, through a tunnel southeast of here. You should be able to spot the passage from just outside the village!
You're Forename, aren't you? What brings you out here?
Ah, the issue with caring for the potsworn.
When they approached me with that same problem, I suggested they commission artisans in Sharlayan instead. The quality of craftsmanship would be guaranteed, after all.
However, the Moblins did not care for the idea.
Surely, it would be more effective to engage a uniformly trained collective. I cannot understand their fixation on individual contracts...
Perhaps the custom will make more sense once we begin the Feat of Pots.
Until then, we've been deemed unfit to assist in the matter of “helphands,” and are instead tasked with tending the injured. We were on our way back from procuring herbs for Urianger, in fact.
Settlements in Kozama'uka, too, have been isolated by the storm's destruction. What would have become of the wounded had we not found a way here?
Should I become Dawnservant, one of my first acts will be to establish reliable trade routes to the capital. When I imagine how much good we can achieve with Sharlayan technology...
My apologies─I have much to consider.
If you will excuse us.
We'll meet again soon, I'm sure. Take care, Forename.
We'll meet again soon, I'm sure. Take care, Forename.
We'll meet again soon, I'm sure. Take care, Forename.
We'll meet again soon, I'm sure. Take care, Forename.
We'll meet again soon, I'm sure. Take care, Forename.
Pfff... Pfffkohhh... Is that a cool breeze Rakorok feels?
Yes! Thank you for seekfinding a draftyshard! Rakorok will add it to the new set of tools he brought.
And I come bearing good food tidings! The cook has prepared a feast fit for the most discerning Hhetsarro, and it's on its way even as we speak!
Let's go in and see what Kaahe thinks of our efforts.
