The Lightwarden is dead, Exarch. Were your people responsible?
You are clearly in some haste, my lord. But before I address your question, you must allow me one of my own. What is Eulmore's interest in this?
His Benevolence Lord Vauthry is gravely concerned that the actions of an ignorant few may jeopardize relations between man and sin eater.
Should it transpire that the Crystarium is guilty of abetting the villains responsible for this outrage...
My lord has decreed that it suffer the same...retribution.
I see. Since you have been so candid, I too shall speak my mind.
Regardless of who is responsible, the Crystarium rejoices in the Lightwarden's death, and welcomes the return of the night sky.
If Eulmore considers this tantamount to aiding those you term “villains,” then by all means carry out your retribution.
Know, however, that even should every innocent soul in the Crystarium perish, nothing can stop that which has been set in motion.
<sigh> Folly. The death of one or a thousand thousand sin eaters changes nothing.
The world is dead, and writhe as we might, like maggots in its rotting corse, it will not be reborn. Only by my master's grace may we live out our days in peace.
But I waste my breath. You have made your stance clear. I shall relay your words to Lord Vauthry.
In the meantime, you would do well to counsel any here who have done more than merely “rejoice” in recent events to throw themselves upon Eulmore's mercy. Promptly.
One last matter. We are searching for a young artist and his assistant. Know you of whom I speak?
An artist and his assistant... No. I cannot say I do.
What a pity. Should they reveal themselves to you, I bid you hand them over at once. My master is most eager to see them again.
Am I imagining things, or did he just stare straight at us?
I fear he did.
The general is not a man to be trifled with. He is a warrior of fearsome repute who has led Eulmore's army since before Vauthry's time, when the nation still spearheaded the fight against the sin eaters.
One does not command the world's mightiest army, and for so long, without possessing exceptional instincts.
If Eulmore chose to send such an individual, we must assume this talk of retribution is more than an idle threat.
While we are grateful for your support, my lord─we cannot in good conscience put your people in harm's way.
'Tis noble of you to say, Master Alphinaud, but my people have been in harm's way since long before you arrived.
Eulmore has ever yearned to rule over what remains of the world. Even should we surrender the Warrior of Darkness to them, they would find some other pretext upon which to invade.
The people of the Crystarium know this only too well, which is why, when the time comes, I am certain they will fight to the last man.
If truth be told, I would not have been surprised had Ran'jit declared war here and now...
He may have reason to delay.
According to reports, the Eulmoran forces at Laxan Loft were observed taking a prisoner.
A young woman believed to be none other than the Oracle of Light─Minfilia.
It may be that General Ran'jit wishes to convey her to Eulmore before commencing hostilities.
Having mentored generations of Minfilias, it would not surprise me if he had made her capture his chief concern.
Ah, of course. How remiss of me. I had intended to speak to you of Minfilia. There is, however, much to say, and precious little time in which to say it...
I think it best that you seek out Moren at the Cabinet of Curiosity. He will be able to enlighten you.
Alphinaud, Alisaie─would you care to accompany your friend? You doubtless have insights of your own to offer on the matter.
All right. Though I'm still not sure I understand it all myself...
In the meantime, I will set about making provisions for war.
Yes? If you're after books pertaining to the Warrior of Darkness, I'm afraid most are out on loan at present. They are experiencing quite a surge in popularity.
Oh, you wish to learn about the Oracle of Light? Then it would be my pleasure to assist!
...After I have finished off some few outstanding tasks, that is. While I attend to them, perhaps you could fetch me a book: The Illustrated Tale of the Oracle of Light, it's called.
Though it's intended for younger readers, it provides an excellent summary of the subject matter, and the artwork is quite lovely besides! I would not hesitate to recommend it to anyone with an interest in learning about Minfilia!
...But you must see for yourself. The book should be located on the level below.
Should, I say...for while there is a place for everything here, not everything is always in its place─despite my best efforts. In short, if the book is not where it should be, it will almost certainly be somewhere it shouldn't. So, uh...good luck!
Should, I say...for while there is a place for everything here, not everything is always in its place─despite my best efforts. In short, if the book is not where it should be, it will almost certainly be somewhere it shouldn't. So, uh...good luck!
Should, I say...for while there is a place for everything here, not everything is always in its place─despite my best efforts. In short, if the book is not where it should be, it will almost certainly be somewhere it shouldn't. So, uh...good luck!
Should, I say...for while there is a place for everything here, not everything is always in its place─despite my best efforts. In short, if the book is not where it should be, it will almost certainly be somewhere it shouldn't. So, uh...good luck!
Have you found the book?
Yes, this is the one! I hope it wasn't too difficult to track down.
I'm happy to say I've finished all my pressing tasks. If you want to call your friends over, we can begin learning at once!
Without further ado, then...
It began a hundred years ago, when the Flood of Light threatened to swallow Norvrandt. Just as all seemed lost, a savior appeared who halted the all-consuming radiance. A maiden with hair of spun gold and eyes of clearest sapphire.
Naught was known about her save that her name was Minfilia. And for delivering the realm, she came to be revered as the Oracle of Light.
After stopping the Flood, the mysterious maiden vanished without a trace. But fifteen years later, her name would unexpectedly reappear in the annals of history.
When sin eaters laid ruin to the Kingdom of Voeburt, a young girl was discovered who was immune to the creatures' blighted touch.
...One with hair of spun gold and eyes of clearest sapphire. She was hailed as the Oracle reborn and came to likewise be called Minfilia.
Enlisting in the Eulmoran Army, this Minfilia fought and vanquished countless sin eaters.
Alas, like so many other soldiers, she eventually met her end in battle.
Yet with her dying breath, she whispered unto her grieving comrades, “Minfilia will return.”
And true to her words, some years later, another young girl was discovered who possessed the selfsame eyes, that selfsame hair, and those selfsame powers.
She too took the name Minfilia. She too fought sin eaters as a soldier of Eulmore. And she too fell in battle. Many more were to follow in her footsteps. And so the cycle continues to this day.
...And that concludes the tale.
By their valor and sacrifice, these women have saved Norvrandt on numerous occasions.
And were it not for them, we might never have learned of the Lightwardens and their nature.
They sound like formidable warriors.
Some, perhaps... The truth is rather less simple. Though the Oracle is reborn with certain common traits, she does not inherit the memories or the knowledge of her previous incarnations.
All of the Minfilias thus far were discovered as ordinary girls, unversed in the ways of war and ignorant of the power they harbored.
While some embraced their fate and devoted themselves to training, others did not... But all were made to face the sin eaters, and all died to keep our hopes alive.
What can you tell us of the current Minfilia?
She was found by the Eulmoran Army some ten years ago and taken into their care.
...Or rather their custody. She was a prisoner in all but name. For by that time, under Lord Vauthry's rule, Eulmore had already abandoned resistance in favor of decadence.
Minfilia was an uncomfortable reminder of the war they no longer wished to fight. A potential threat to the peace. And so they kept her under lock and key.
For a long while, we heard nothing more of her. We couldn't even be certain she was alive, save that it was in the Eulmorans' best interests for her to remain under their control.
But then, three years ago, a gallant soul stole into the city and rescued her from their clutches! Just like a hero from the tales!
Indeed. Well, I believe we now have a good grasp of Minfilia's tale. Thank you for your time, Moren.
Might I trouble you for a word, Forename? Outside?
As you will have already surmised, the gallant soul who rescued Minfilia was none other than our own dear Thancred.
They have since been wandering the land together, never remaining in one place for long─which is why we have not yet had a chance to meet them.
We know that Minfilia journeyed here as Hydaelyn's emissary to halt the Flood of Light.
It could only be her that the people of the First witnessed a hundred years ago. The original Oracle of Light.
But while there's plainly some connection between the woman we knew and her namesakes, the fact that these girls do not share her memories must surely mean they are not the same person.
Thancred has to understand that.
I have no doubt that he understands. The question is how he feels.
Regardless, the Thancred we know would not forsake his charge.
If she has been captured, we may be certain he will not stand idly by.
Hmph, there you go again, talking in your roundabout way. If you think we should rescue Minfilia, just spit it out.
It just so happens I agree with you.
It's quite clear that this Minfilia possesses Hydaelyn's blessing.
And it wouldn't hurt to have a second such individual on our side. Right, Forename?
I see you've made up your minds.
Exarch! What brings you here?
A report and a proposal.
First, the report. Our scouts have confirmed that the Eulmoran forces at Laxan Loft do indeed have Minfilia in their custody.
For the present, they are holding her there, but we can be certain they will move her to Eulmore ere long. Should that happen, we may be forced to give her up as lost.
So if we mean to act, we should do so quickly.
Which brings me to my proposal.
I ask that you entrust this undertaking to us, the people of the Crystarium.
You are doubtless eager to attempt Minfilia's rescue─and with your combined strength, you may well succeed.
But as I said earlier, I do not wish to show our hand unless absolutely necessary.
'Twas not merely the night sky that you restored to us, but hope─hope for the future of Norvrandt.
Unlike you, we cannot contend with the Lightwardens. But so long as hope burns in our hearts, we will fight on regardless. This I will prove to you.
My friends, I thank you for gathering at such short notice. There is something I would ask you all.
As many of you are aware, I received an emissary from Eulmore a short while ago─in the form of General Ran'jit.
To my dismay, the general condemned the slaying of the Lightwarden, and warned me in no uncertain terms that, should the Crystarium cast its lot with the Warrior of Darkness, there would be war.
Let none be mistaken: we would be hard-pressed indeed to resist the might of Eulmore. Some would even call it suicide.
And yet my heart cries out to fight. Better that than relinquish the hope that swelled in my breast when I beheld the night sky for the first time in a hundred years.
...Or so says my heart. My mind, meanwhile, reminds me that to follow my heart would be to risk everything we have accomplished thus far.
Clearly, this is not a decision to be made lightly─nor less alone. And so I put the question to you all. What should we do?
My lord, you already know our minds.
It brought tears to our eyes to witness the night's return. The whole of Norvrandt deserves the same, and not just because some children's story tells us so.
Eulmore's influence is far-reaching. Should war break out, trade would be subject to restrictions.
The flow of goods will dry up, and we will struggle to make do with what little trickles through... But make do we will.
Aye, we can weather such hardships! Is that not the very thing the Crystarium was built for?
We have always taken pride in our ability to sustain ourselves─not just to endure, but to thrive!
“When all falls down around you, rise up.” Those were your words.
“There may come a day when all hope seems lost. But even should the rest of the world give in to despair─we shall not.
“We shall fight on, that our children and our children's children might know a better tomorrow.”
Rousing words apart, I never much cared for those Eulmoran bastards anyway. No better than common swindlers, most of them. Wouldn't know a fair deal if it came up and kissed them on the arse!
Trust you to spoil the moment!
It appears we have a consensus.
Let it be known that the Eulmoran host at Laxan Loft has taken the Oracle of Light captive.
They fear the power she holds over the sin eaters, and doubtless intend to imprison her once more.
So I move that we rescue the Oracle, grant her a place among us, and let that be our answer to Eulmore's ultimatum!
In planning a strategy for the rescue, I open the floor to you all.
And there you have it. If Eulmore wishes to denounce us as villains, then we shall embrace our villainy. Will you do so as well?
We will not be outdone. Consider us your partners in crime.
My lord, our proposal is as follows: we begin by deploying amaro to occupy the skies over Lakeland. They should serve to delay the airship's departure.
At the same time, we scatter dream powder from the air.
Not all will succumb to its effects, but it should thin the enemy's numbers, affording us an opening to swoop in and liberate the Oracle.
Very good. See to your preparations.
And what exciting crimes would you have us commit? Speaking for my fellow villains, I'd say we're capable of most things─though we draw the line at indolence.
If excitement is your desire, then I bid you join the guard. Captain Lyna will give you your orders.
So, you will be joining the guard. But however highly the Exarch thinks of you, you will receive no special treatment from me. Is that clear?
Where's your salute, soldier!?
Better. More spirited than the Exarch's feeble attempts, certainly.
Now, first things first: you will need uniforms.
Go to the Crystalline Mean and report to Katliss. She will see you measured and fitted.
Ah, and there's the last of them! Your friends are being measured as we speak.
Right this way. We'll see to it you look your dashing best for your first outing!
Done, are you? Let's have a look at those numbers.
I see... Hmmm...
How goes it?
Sorry, Captain─I'm afraid we don't have anything on hand that's a ready fit.
But we do have a few that are fairly close. We should be able to make them work with some minor adjustments.
Very well, then. See to it. And have the uniforms delivered directly to the field.
I shall take this opportunity to brief you on the mission.
As mentioned earlier, we will deploy amaro to scatter dream powder from the air.
Once the powder takes effect, an elite unit will storm the fortress to rescue the Oracle. Her safe liberation is our sole objective; engagement is to be avoided wherever possible.
I assume we're to be part of said unit?
Correct.
The unit will be divided into two contingents, one deploying from Fort Jobb and the other from the Ostall Imperative. You and Alphinaud will join the former.
Forename, meanwhile, will join the latter with me.
Before you proceed to your positions, you are to report to Chessamile at Spagyrics.
She will issue you with a serum to ward off the effects of dream powder.
We shall be on our way, then. Take care, my friend, and we will see you in the field.
It's quite far to the Imperative, so you may make use of an amaro from the rookery. After you have collected the serum, of course.
