...Men who revere manners and tradition can be found the world over. But not here.
Your candor is appreciated. Speak your heart.
...Gosetsu. A former leader of the rebellion. Aye, I know of him.
Why he bade you petition us for aid and succor, however, I know not.
At the risk of repeating myself, to join the Confederacy is to renounce all other ties. We are beholden to none─allied with none.
When Doma was invaded by the Empire twenty-five years ago, we did not rush to her defense. Knowing this, do you honestly expect us to help you drive the imperial forces out of Isari?
The Garleans have long maintained a presence in this region, and we would be fools to break the peace, fragile as it is. Besides, you are capable warriors, yes? With guile and preparation, you can surely resolve this matter yourselves.
It is imperative that our presence here remain secret for as long as possible. For us to openly engage the imperials at this time would endanger everything we have come here to achieve!
You have told us why you cannot fight. Not why we should fight in your stead.
If you would speak to me of lives saved, I would speak to you of slaughter. How many will die when all pretense is lost and the Garleans declare war on the Confederacy?
...Hate is a luxury we cannot afford.You are free to come and go as you please, but you will receive no further aid.
Thank you for your hospitality. If you would excuse us.
Hey, Forename... I know that didn't go well, but I'm not prepared to give up on them yet.
Gosetsu told us to come here for a reason. He must have believed we could convince them to help us... We just have to work out how.
My thoughts exactly. I'm glad to hear we're of the same mind.
'Tis little wonder they refused─we have done naught to persuade them. The real work begins now.
We need to learn more about the Confederacy─what their needs and weaknesses are. Once we know that, we will know how to earn their trust.
We need to learn more about the Confederacy─what their needs and weaknesses are. Once we know that, we will know how to earn their trust.
We need to learn more about the Confederacy─what their needs and weaknesses are. Once we know that, we will know how to earn their trust.
