All strength to the colony. Speak and I shall listen!
O Glorious General! We have captured intruders, and would make unto You an offering of their life's blood...
These feeble fleshlings dared to invade Gnath lands?
Hear me, Lord Ravana! My companion and I did not come to contest your children's territory.
We wished only to learn the reason you wage war against the dragons.
Thou wouldst flirt with death merely to satisfy thy curiosity? Wherefore should the glorious conquests of the Gnath concern thee so, Elezen?
...Ahhh, mayhap thine own kind's struggle against the wyrms fareth poorly, and thou art desirous of a pact.
We crave no alliance, Lord Ravana─only peace. We would bring an end to our war with the dragons. Yet so long as they remain embroiled in this conflict with your children, our goal shall remain out of reach.
Never before have the Gnath risen up in such numbers, and never yet with you at their head. Why do you lead them to war?
Thy question hath no meaning. To live is but to fight.
Long have my children waited, gathering their strength in the shadow of thy ceaseless conflict.
The Gnath would see the Dravanians slain, and their territory secured─and by such fervent prayers am I now given form and purpose.
As I feared, your very existence is an obstacle to our goal. Since you are so fond of fighting, we challenge you, Lord of the Gnath!
And should we emerge the victors, I would have you swear to withdraw your soldiers from Dravanian soil!
Gahahaha! Thou art bold indeed to risk thy fleshy hide so readily!
Very well. I, Ravana, fourfold master of the blade, do accept thy challenge!
But should I emerge the victor, I would have thee swear to serve in mine army till thy last breath is spent! Do you accept!?
I do! And I believe the first bout is mine!
What is this!? A god clad in flesh!?
Is aught amiss, my lord? Thou wilt not break thy word, I trust.
Mine oath is unbending as steel, little goddess! Thy ruse will but add to mine enjoyment!
I thought myself...stronger... Mayhap with more crystals...?
Be thou god or maid, thou art nothing to me! ...And what of thee, mortal? Art thou warrior or craven?
A warrior, then! Good! Mayhap thou wilt provide more sport than thy feeble companion!
Dance to the song of ringing steel!
Furious as a blaze!
Take wing, ye souls of war!
Prepare thyself!
Rejoice in the glory of combat!
Unyielding as the earth!
Thou hast bested me...
Thus doth the sacred rite of combat proclaim the victor... I lay my blades at thy feet, child of man...
You do not disappoint, Warrior of Light. Would that I had your skill in battle. ...I do begin to see why so many place their faith in you.
For all his savagery, I do not think Ravana one to break his word. Provided the dragons do not trespass upon Gnath lands, they should have little to fear of the primal's biting blades. We have done well, have we not? Come, let us return to Vidofnir and share these glad tidings.
Once more you achieve the impossible, Bringer of Light... But with every mortal heart that succumbs to fear and fury, another voice is joined to the chorus beseeching divine succor.
At their bidding, warring gods will shake the firmament, and your world will be consumed in the swelling storm of chaos...
Never since we first fought have I seen you draw upon the full extent of your power...and never from afar till this day. You were a marvel to behold, Forename.
Well...'tis time we rejoined our companions. They will be eager to hear the tale...and to continue our journey.
Forename! Lady Ysayle! Thank the Twelve!
...“Lord Ravana,” you say? How curious that the Vath never mentioned his name... And you are quite certain he will keep his word?
There was honor beneath his savagery.
That we survived the encounter at all was a miracle─a miracle I must attribute to Forename.
Never did I doubt you, Warrior of Light...unlike some. You were gone so long that Master Alphinaud here nigh lost his wits with worry. Fretting like a maid for her sweetheart, he was!
Estinien! Was that truly necessary!?
Hahaha... Not truly necessary─but certainly true.
Ahem! What matters is that the primal is banished, and our promise fulfilled. We should return to Vidofnir without delay.
Lest you forget, this was but a means to secure an audience with the wyrm Hraesvelgr. Nidhogg's minions will not be halted by idle chatter! Come, now─we must make every moment count!
You are unkind, Estinien. For all his experience and intellect, Alphinaud is still but a boy.
Shall we be on our way to Anyx Trine, then? I would not have the dragons think that we have forgotten our bargain.
Thou art returned, Little One. Hast thou abandoned thine ill-conceived contest with the Gnath?
Nay, my friend, we return in triumph. By Forename's hand was the beastmen's god, Lord Ravana, laid low.
In his overconfidence, the primal swore to withdraw his followers from your lands in the event of his defeat─a promise we believe he will keep. The Gnath shall trouble you no longer.
The deity is slain, then...? How didst thou contend with his biting blades!? ...But the particulars matter not. Thou hast fulfilled thy promise, and I shall fulfill mine.
Attend me, mortals: hie you unto the deepest reaches of Mourn, and there shall you find Halo─the altar from which you may begin your ascent to the summit of Sohm Al.
But be fairly warned: the minions of Nidhogg shall not lightly suffer your presence on that sacred mount. By your struggles within the cavern shall I judge your party possessed of sufficient fortitude to proceed.
We shall not disappoint you, Vidofnir.
If memory serves, the cavern of Mourn is entered from the second floor of the central tower. Let us begin the climb.
Well done, Little One. As promised, I shall open the way to Sohm Al's summit for thee and thy companions.
Heed me now, children of man: the domain you seek to enter hath not seen visitors of your kind in nigh on a thousand years. Though I freely grant you passage, your presence will not be welcomed.
To my kin, this mountain is revered as holy ground and resting place both─ware you the minions of Nidhogg during your ascent, for 'tis certain they shall take great offense at your intrusion.
We are grateful for your warnings, gentle Vidofnir.
My final words are for thee, dragoon: have care to keep the stolen power thou wieldest in check, lest it breed further despair.
Estinien...?
The way is open. Let us not tarry here.
A moment! Shall we blindly forge on, knowing the dangers that await us? Tioman herself is said to guard this peak.
I do not fear Nidhogg's consort. Any dragon foolish enough to bar our path shall feel the sting of my lance.
Spoken like a true butcher! Need I remind you that we are come to parley a peace!?
Let us be clear, heretic: 'twas to save Ishgard and her people that I first lent my support to this doubtful venture. And 'tis for their sake that I go now to speak with Hraesvelgr.
But I said nothing of Tioman. Should the opportunity present itself to rid my people of one of their deadliest enemies, I shall take it. That is my duty as Azure Dragoon.
You are beyond redemption...
We will accomplish nothing by bickering. If we are to meet with Hraesvelgr, our path leads up the mountain.
We shall defend ourselves if attacked, but avoid conflict wherever possible. What other choice do we have?
I feel I've seen this plant's like before, but where...?
Drakespur! Beware its pollen!
Bah, more drakespur.
Focus on cutting down the plants. I'll provide support.
I didn't come all this way to cut down overgrown weeds...
Nevertheless, I would see if your lance is suited to the task.
We've still a long way to go.
Then let's keep moving.
Stop! We did not come here to do battle.
Forgive me, but we have to defend ourselves.
Must we always resort to violence?
We must slay or be slain. Make your choice.
Its scales are like unto armor.
A thick hide will not spare it from my lance.
Hmph, it was a worthy adversary.
We are not here for you to enjoy sport, dragoon.
Please, I beg you─let us pass!
Your words fall on deaf ears.
Tioman, consort of Nidhogg, we beseech you─grant us safe passage to the mountain's summit. We mean you no harm.
As I thought. Blind to reason like all the rest. If you would see our mission to its conclusion, you know what must be done.
Such rage and rancor... Is there truly no other way?
If you would flee, now is the time.
