Calm yourself, Kuplo Kopp! Can you not see that she hasn't the faintest idea what you're talking about!? Be quiet this instant!Pray forgive his witless outburst, Sister.
Most grateful am I that you have come, Forename, and upon such short notice. Truly, Gridania could not wish for a more stalwart ally.
But you are doubtless eager to know wherefore we summoned you. Our friend Kuplo Kopp has brought to us news of a most unsettling development.
It would seem that Good King Moggle Mog XII has returned to Eorzea.
A curious thing to hear, I know. Truth to tell, I myself cannot say for sure if he is a genuine figure from history or some manifestation of moogle mythology. Kuplo here would have me believe the former.
Once upon a time, we moogles served the gods in the heavens. It was quite nice up there─unspeakably beautiful, unimaginably spacious, and with a literally endless supply of wine, kupo!
In spite of this, or possibly because of the last part, the gods eventually became discontented and started squabbling, which made life jolly difficult for the poor moogles.
So Good King Moggle Mog XII─may his glorious name live forever─decreed that the time had come to leave, kupo! The realm of man would suffice, he said, so all the moogles should live there instead.
Unfortunately, the two realms are so far apart that we couldn't safely fly down. But Good King Moggle Mog XII─may his miraculous foresight ever be praised─knew exactly what to do, kupo! He had a rope, you see─the longest one ever woven. This he nobly held while his subjects climbed all the way down to the world below.
And that is how we moogles came to this land, kupo! All of us except Good King Moggle Mog XII─may his courageous sacrifice never be forgotten. He alone would remain in the heavens so that mooglekind might at last know peace.
Except that he has not remained in the heavens, from what I understand─that being your reason for contacting us, yes?
I'll bet he tied the rope to something! Good thinking! Remind me again what the problem was with him returning to Eorzea?
The problem, Yda, lies in the fact that he was summoned.
It is our belief that Good King Moggle Mog XII is a myth made manifest via means akin to those employed by the beast tribes in the summoning of their gods.
Waaait... You're saying a handful of moogles with a boatload of crystals wished really, really hard, and he just sort of appeared? ...Would that even work?
What I cannot fathom is why they would even try.
With Garuda humbled and the Ultima Weapon destroyed, what new threat could have prompted them to take so drastic a measure?
Might that not in itself be the answer? Twice in the last half decade, Eorzea has been brought unto the very brink of destruction, only to be spared at the last by the heroics of a chosen few.
To you who braved those tempests and survived by virtue of your own strength, this latest period of peace will doubtless seem a welcome respite.
But to those who had not the power to defend themselves, who were spared only by another's grace, this is merely the calm before the storm.
I think the Mogglesguard are afraid─afraid of what tomorrow will bring, and that things may not end so well as they did yesterday.
That fear has driven them to call upon a greater power, one they believe can be relied upon to protect their loved ones and their homes come what may.
I assure you, the Mogglesguard only want to protect the forest from outsiders. But ever since the return of Good King Moggle Mog XII─may his boundless grace fill our hearts with love─they've started to get a little carried away, kupo. Verging on a lot, in fact...
Like the sylphs who summoned Ramuh, you mean?
Hmm. We cannot discount the possibility that this...entity is influencing the moogles in a manner similar to that of a primal.
We share the same concern.
Whoever or whatever the king may be, it is our belief that he poses a threat not only to mooglekind, but to Gridania as a whole. Thus do we beseech you, Forename─confront Good King Moggle Mog XII and drive him from our midst.
Humbly I do thank you.
The sanctuary of the Mogglesguard and their liege lord is concealed by magical wards. Brother E-Sumi-Yan of the Conjurers' Guild will doubtless be able to offer insight on how they might be dispelled. Pray seek his counsel ere you proceed any further.
