S-Susano is slain! Slain by the shell-less one!
Is it true? Did you defeat him?
Well, in that case─how do you fancy helping us keep the Kojin occupied until the Confederacy make their move?
Speak of the devils─that's coming from Isari!
I think we've done all we can here. Let's withdraw and make for the village.
Right! Although...they don't seem keen to let us go...
Hear me, Kojin of the Red!We have no quarrel with you─only your imperial masters!
No more blood need be shed this day! I pray you let us go in peace!
You dare speak to us of peace!? Your flesh will feed the fishes, thief! Attaaack!
Now's our chance! Don't worry about her─she can handle herself!
I can't let you take all the glory, can I?
I think we're safe. I didn't see any Kojin following us...
Wait here. I'm going back for Alisaie.
No. Absolutely not.
She stayed behind so that you could escape. Even I know that.
So that you could escape, not me. And that was a mistake─I should've been the one to stay behind, not her.
So I've got to go back. If we lose her...I'll never forgive myself.
...I was the one who dragged you all into this. It was my fight, not yours. I knew that from the start, but I also knew I couldn't do it alone.
But I've asked too much and let too much happen to you all. I have to make this right─and I have to do it on my own.
So let me go, please. I'm asking you as a friend. I have to help her!
You can start by finding me a towel and some bandages. Brrr...
Alisaie!
What? Why are you looking at me like that? I said I was going to distract them, not make a heroic and ultimately futile last stand. Who does that, anyway?
For the love of─ This is stupid! You're embarrassing yourself! And me!
Shut up and let me have this.
Right. That wasn't so bad, was it? Now then, we need to hurry back to Isari!
I don't see any soldiers... Do you think the Confederacy drove them off?
Something definitely happened here. I see several people who look like they might be injured. Let's give them a hand and find out what we missed.
Hm? Do I need help? Oh, I'll be fine. It's nothing that won't heal. You should go after Lyse.
