Ugh, did something die?
Someone wanna explain that ungodly stench to me?
B-Boss...? O-Over there...
Huh?
Wh-What in the world!?
Aaahhhhhh!
Run for your lives!
Hmph, so the smoke's what drew them here? I swear, when I find out who did this...
I'd say our friends have stirred up enough trouble. Time to retrieve the bracelet.
Hey! What's going on out there!?
I'm still in here in case you've forgotten!
Sit tight. We'll be back for you.
What!? You gotta get me out of here now! They're gonna kill me!
I'm beggin' you! Please!
Shhh! They'll hear you!
Shit. Who was that?
Hey! Are you going to help me or what!?
<sigh> The bracelet must wait. Let's break him out and withdraw for now.
Thanks, I owe you one. For a moment there I thought you might actually leave me behind.
All that effort, and naught to show for it...
Sorry about that... But damn, I didn't think anyone would have the balls to take on the Vulture!
No need to apologize. We were planning to save you. Eventually.
Really? And I don't even know who you are. You secret admirers of mine or something?
Hehe, I'm just havin' fun with you. But I do appreciate the help.
This man they call the Vulture. I've seen his face before.
Was he not the officer you confronted in town?
The one and the same. When he's not masquerading as a gang leader, he serves as deputy chief of the Dustwatch.
That would explain why the bandits are so confident they can avoid capture.
You're trying to get back something the Vulture stole, right? Let me help. It's the least I can do after you bailed me out back there.
I have an idea where he's hid his cache. Reckon he's headed there now, too.
We can go together. I've got a score to settle with him myself.
I don't doubt that you do, but we need to know what it is first. Will you tell us?
Right, so. Those bandits at Tonatenyawi? They're called the Daybreakers, and it was me and my friends that founded the group...
B-But it wasn't a gang of cutthroats! Not back then...
We just wanted to protect people who couldn't protect themselves. Kids being harassed by bullies, workers being exploited by the mining concerns─folks who needed help to even the odds.
That was three years ago. And whenever we found someone scheming in the shadows, we settled matters the best way we knew how.
With a duel!
I see. By the old laws, anyone who loses in a duel must be held to account for their crimes, even those in positions of authority.
And we made damn sure they did, every time. Before we knew it, our small band of friends commanded a force to be reckoned with.
Then, about a year ago, the Vulture and his thugs showed up. They got the better of us and took over the Daybreakers.
Everyone was afraid of him, so they did his bidding without question. But when he showed them how they could make a fortune, easily─that was when he really won them over.
Now the Daybreakers is nothing but a bunch of bandits and cutthroats who prey on the people it was created to protect.
I talked it over with my friends, Kwikana and Liwine, and we all agreed the only way to stop him was to challenge him to a duel.
And he accepted. I still remember how he gloated that he'd win...
But when the day came, he showed up with the Dustwatch and had my friends arrested on charges of robbery.
As if that wasn't enough, he set their bail at a price no one could ever hope to pay.
With them locked away, there was no one left to help me. None of my old friends from the Daybreakers, and certainly not the Dustwatch...
And that's why you were ready to challenge him in the middle of town.
I was, until that guy with the spear stopped me.
No sooner had I stepped out of town than the Vulture's minions caught me by surprise. They took me prisoner, then...well, you know the rest.
You said the Dustwatch would be of no help. Are they all working for the Vulture, then?
No, not all of them.
The sheriff, Kemakka─he's as honest as they come, a staunch keeper of the peace. Problem is, he's a little too trusting and doesn't suspect a thing.
If it were my word against the deputy chief's, who do you think he'd believe?
Well, if he knows where this Vulture keeps his spoils, perhaps he can help us recover Namikka's bracelet. What do you think?
For what it's worth, I have a plan. But I can't do it alone.
A plan?
All I ask is that you hear me out─but not here. I'll be waiting for you at Sheshenewezi Springs.
I guess we can decide what to do after he gives us the pitch.
I'm grateful he could take us to the deputy chief, but it will all be for naught if we're seen.
Good, you're here.
This is where he hides his loot. I expect he'll show up soon.
Shouldn't be long now before Wihuwte shows up.
Well, well, look who it is.
Storing stolen goods here seems risky, but I suppose it's an option for someone with his authority.
Yeah. He moves the spoils in ceruleum barrels, where no one would think to look.
They're mixed in with regular shipments of fuel to Tuliyollal, where they're sold off.
You said he stole a bracelet of yours, right? If he knows you're on his tail, chances are he'll be eager to get what he can for it.
But I doubt he'd trust a lackey with that business, given the provenance of the piece. No, I'll wager he's not letting that bracelet out of his sight till he's got coin in hand.
I wasn't sure what to make of you after Hhusatahwi, but I'm glad to see you're more than an impulsive child.
Ah, well...not my finest hour, I'll admit...
But there's a lesson in that: the Vulture's a slippery bastard. If we're going to catch him, we need to back him into a corner with hard evidence. That's my plan.
First, we need to lure him away from here─over to Hhusatahwi would be ideal. For that, I need one of you to help me.
This will buy time for the other to search the barrels for any stolen goods.
And using that, we'll expose him as a criminal.
There's no way to tell if Wihuwte's carrying the bracelet, but regardless, there'll be time enough to find it once he's behind bars.
But won't he simply feign innocence?
Oh, he'll try. And that's when I'll challenge him to a duel!
A duel? That approach didn't work out so well for your friends, as I recall.
True. But unlike before, I'll challenge him in front of the whole town. That way he won't be able to wriggle out of it like before.
Every man, woman, and child of the wilds understands the importance of duels and the old laws. The deputy chief would never disgrace himself by refusing.
What's important is that I get him to duel with as many witnesses as possible. When he loses─and he will lose─that'll be the end of the Vulture.
The plan is not without flaws, but...what do you think?
Thanks. I sure was lucky running into the two of you. You won't regret this, I promise!
Not even he can ignore our traditions. Once he loses, I'll have him confess to his crimes.
That bracelet's really important to you, huh? Don't worry. I'll see to it you get it back.
If you're satisfied, then so am I.
I knew I could count on you!
I was seen in Tonatenyawi, so it's probably best I stay and search the barrels.
Then you're with me. Tell the Vulture I tried to rob you, but you managed to overpower me. Even if he suspects a trap, he won't be able to resist taking the bait.
You'll want to buy your friend as much time as possible, and make your way to Hhusatahwi. Once you've got the Vulture there, I'll take care of the rest!
All right, then. Let's get to it!
The yeheheceyaa were likely that Shetona's doing. What's his angle?
Hmph. And then there's the brat. It's past time I dealt with him.
Hmph. And then there's the brat. It's past time I dealt with him.
Hmph. And then there's the brat. It's past time I dealt with him.
Hm? What's this?
Ah, an unfamiliar face in these parts. Ahem. Have you need of the Dustwatch, misssir?
What? Zekowa tried to rob you, but you apprehended him!?
I see... So desperate was he to see his friends free from prison, he turned to a life of crime. How awful...
You have my sincerest thanks, misssir. Might I trouble you to take me to him?
Something the matter? If not, then please, lead on.
You have somewhere to be? Very well, but I implore you to hurry. I have a duty to see this criminal brought to justice.
That was a distressingly long wait, misssir. But I presume you can show me to the miscreant now?
Not that this is an appropriate time for me to play tour guide, but if you insist... Sheshenewezi Springs is home to a thriving ceruleum mining industry. The prospect of easy coin has attracted some undesirables, though...
Is this the place? I don't see him...
I see... <sigh> Very well, lead on.
There's gold in these fields. Blue gold...
Ahem. Best be wary of the beasts in these parts. They may prefer to snack on ceruleum, but for you I reckon they'd make an exception.
Is this the place, then?
This some sort of joke? Of all the... Let's keep moving.
Hurry up already!
This better be the place.
My patience is wearing awfully thin, misssir. If he isn't at the next place we stop, I may be forced to do something you and I would both dearly regret.
Unless you'd rather I feed you one raw─needles and all─cut the chitchat.
All right, where is he?
I don't see him anywhere! Where is Zekowa!?
Tell me where he is, or I'll bury you in the same grave.
That's it! I've had it with these games, and I've had it with you!!!
Hey, Wihuwte! You looking for me?
If you want to place me under arrest, you'll have to work a little harder!
You'll be begging for a cell by the time I'm done with you!
Wihuwte! Finally caught up to me, I see.
Well, well, if it isn't our young outlaw.
You've taken up stealing, I'm told. Can't say I'm surprised about that, but I am surprised that you'd offer yourself up to be arrested!
Sorry to disappoint, but you're the one who's going to answer for their crimes today.
