You know not what you do...
I gather your pleas fell upon deaf ears.
A loyal man with a cold heart. I know his kind well.
I hope that you will find me more to your liking. Alphinaud Leveilleur, at your service. A friend.
Which, I believe, makes me very nearly unique─in this part of the world, at least. Few indeed are your allies in Ul'dah. Yet you will need some if you wish to endear yourselves to the wealthy and powerful.
Pray join me and my associate at the Quicksand. There you may explain your situation to us, and we shall see if there is aught we can do to help.
We have traveled some several thousand malms across the sea, from the nation of Doma, in hopes that we might find sanctuary in these lands.
Sanctuary, Lady Yugiri?
Aye. Lying within Othard, Doma was under the dominion of the Garlean Empire, as I am sure you are aware.
When the war of succession broke out in Garlemald, we espied an opportunity to free ourselves from the yoke of imperial oppression, and took up arms.
...Only to be crushed. And so I gathered what few Domans escaped the reckoning, and guided them hither to your shores.
A war of succession...? Then the Emperor... Forgive me, you said that Doma “was” under imperial rule, did you not?
Doma is gone. Razed to the ground as an example to the other provinces.
Twelve have mercy... And your people?
On a ship anchored in Vesper Bay, flying borrowed colors.
Many were complicit in the rebellion, or are kin to those who were. They will not come ashore until I send word that it is safe to do so.
I sought an audience with your rulers, but was summarily refused.
The lords of Ul'dah are not wont to entertain foreign refugees without suitable encouragement.
Mayhap I was foolish to expect otherwise. But our supplies run low, and we have young ones in urgent need of care.
I have seen the tents outside the gates, however. We are not the first to seek asylum, nor will we be the last.
...Be that as it may, Ul'dah is no friend to Garlemald. Your tale would stir the hearts of many men and women here.
The sultana and the Syndicate will not be so easily swayed─but I shall see that you are granted an opportunity to plead your case.
This is within your power?
Well...far be it from me to boast, but I do have the ear of certain influential individuals.
I am in your debt.
Lady Yugiri, forgive me for observing, but...your choice of attire seems like to evoke feelings of mistrust.
Men are wont to fear the unfamiliar. We know this from experience.
We seek only to spare the people of Ul'dah unnecessary disquiet.
I shall defer to your experience, then.
I thank you for your understanding.
It seems I have urgent business with the Flame General. I leave our guests in your capable hands.
If I may, madam─as I said earlier, we have been at sea for some several moons, and our supplies are all but spent.
I have not the heart to repeat the tales of our tribulations, nor would it please you to listen to them, I think. Suffice it to say, however...sacrifices have been made.
Though it shames me to beg for more when you have already offered so much, desperation compels me... Good madam, if you or your associates could spare any provisions─anything at all─it would go a long way to lessen the suffering of my people.
...Hells, why didn't you say so sooner, Forename? 'Course I'll help! You couldn't have picked a better day, to tell the truth! A wealthy merchant an' his entourage were due to have a banquet here on the morrow, see, but just sent word they can't come, meanin' I've got a boatload of foodstuffs an' no one to feed. Best of all, they paid for the lot in advance! Hah hah!
Go an' call on Fridurih an' Katherine at the Sapphire Avenue Exchange. Tell 'em I said to ship the little prince's order to the Wakin' Sands. Oh, an' if they argue, just show 'em those letters. That should set 'em straight.
