Thank you. I shudder to imagine what might have happened if you hadn't dealt with the dark ones.
...Who is that?
Oh, her. She's like you, I hear. Hunts memoriates taken by Darkness.
Well, well, a kindred spirit. Perhaps we will finally have a new comrade.
No. I've no interest in working with others, much less someone who looks as suspicious as you.
Is that so...
...If there's nothing else, I'll be on my way.
Even when we share the same goal, we can't overcome the mistrust. Such is the way of things─the “wisdom” of our era...
Only a precious few memoriates remain who cling to the Light. Would that we could have won her over...
We'll make do, old friend. We have accomplished much already, and another person may well have been more of a hindrance than help.
Now then, our work here is finished.
His Majesty has summoned us, so let us not delay. To Baron!
Had another vision of the past, did you?
...What? I was in it!?
It's them─the pair I met in that village. Which means the one sealed in this memoria is...
So, you have come. You who would oppose our crusade...
Sister!
You... I know you.
Is that so? From the world before, I daresay.
'Tis impressive enough that you have managed to retain your mortal form, but to remember your past besides...
But that is of no moment. You are the memoriate who vanquished my minions, correct?
And what if I am?
Then I would bid you join me. As a child of our world and slave to the wheel, fight with me for the salvation of all our souls.
Fight with you? More like fight as your pawn.
It isn't me you want, but my power. And if I don't obey, you'll bind me like you bound that dragon.
But no more. I refuse to be bound ever again. I fight only for myself, and for those in whom I trust. My friends.
I see. A pity.
It is for the dragon that you have come, yes?
When first you appeared, I thought simply to remove a threat to our plan.
Never did I imagine that you would reach this place, and gift me a golden opportunity!
Speak plainly, gaoler.
Long as it has been imprisoned, this dragon has grown feeble and weak, its spirit extinguished.
Your coming has served to rekindle her forgotten hope.
Her yearning to be free─to return home! That is the key to our deliverance!
Azdaja! No!
The Darkness is ravaging her! She's becoming a voidsent!
Vrtra... Thou must flee!
Rise, O Shadow Dragon, and obey!
Kill him.
Sister, please!
Damn you!
Keep our guests occupied.
Save her, I beg thee... Save my sister...
Before Darkness swallowed the world, I fought tirelessly in a war without end.
The experience taught me to discern the strong. That dragon...and you.
Come. Face me.
Accursed Light...
You who have ever basked in its warmth could never understand our envy! Our agony!
You will not deny us our release!
Expect no mercy. To destroy you, I shall bring my all to bear!
Come, warriors from beyond the rift!
If you would oppose our crusade, then come!
But know that none shall deny us salvation.
This place shall be your tomb!
I will free us from the wheel!
Ware my rime-kissed blades!
I will suffer no obstacles!
No matter the foe, I will stay the course...
Let lightning surge!
Such is your power?
Come forth, my servant of shadow!
With abyssal dark and hero's blade, I bring my people liberation!
You shall know true terror!
Dragon! Hear me and obey!
Crush them!
Bathe them in black flame!
My meteors will extinguish your Light!
A raging gale to rend you asunder!
Look to the heavens for your doom!
You wretch!
Begone!
Render unto me your all!
My power...
Even my blade... So this is the limit of my defiance...
Are you all right!?
What's happening!?
At last, the moment is at hand...
You may have bested me, but not quickly enough. Too late will you look to the chasm.
You've won the battle, but I win the war!
Stop this, I beg of thee! Let her go!
Darkness made manifest once abided in the depths of this abyss. Until, one day, it dispersed in a haze of aether.
In the absence of the great flow, that aether has nowhere to return.
And so it has coalesced, giving rise to a mighty voidsent!
Now, feast! Feast upon this dragon, and its ardent longing for home with it!
Nooooooooo!
From the convergence of ancient and newborn, an entity without equal shall emerge─one who shall tear down the barrier between worlds!
Upon you, who shall deliver us from eternal damnation, I bestow the name of a hero of eld!
Zeromus! Awaken!
No matter how powerful, a voidsent can be sealed in memoria!
Damn it... It's too strong...
Our warding scales may not hold! Not against a voidsent born of Zodiark's aether!
We must retreat! Everyone, to me!
I will return, Sister, and I will save thee. This I swear!
Are we all unharmed?
...
Curse you, Golbez...
...We made it back safely, at least.
Zeromus...
In light of this development, that we escaped with our lives is an accomplishment unto itself.
Would that we could have anticipated Azdaja's yearning to return home could be manipulated in this fashion. Alas, we must now contend with a newborn voidsent hells-bent on breaching the rift.
And one with such prodigious strength. Zeromus is unlike anything I have ever seen.
So named for an ancient hero, as Golbez said. Though none can say if there is even a sliver of truth to the legends.
Perhaps Golbez chose it in the hopes that his champion will do that which no one could in the Contramemoria: save the world.
But a true hero would not damn another world to save his own.
And we're not about to let that happen, but regardless, we need to regroup.
Aye. Loath though I am to admit it, we are in no state to face a voidsent of Zeromus's might.
Vrtra not least of all, in body and mind both. For now, let us return to Radz-at-Han and take stock of the situation.
...Very well.
Forename─might I trouble you to head to Bestways Burrow and apprise Urianger of the situation?
The rest of us shall tend Vrtra's wounds before returning to Radz-at-Han. Pray join us there anon.
Dire though these circumstances may seem, Vrtra must keep the faith. For despite Golbez's claim, there is still a war to fight. A war we must win.
Y'shtola expended a great deal of aether to open the voidgate, and Zero took a vicious blow from Zeromus.
But worry not, I'm well enough to keep everyone safe. And when we've finished here, be sure to get some rest. You've earned it.
Ah, Forename, thou art returned. I am pleased to say it hath been blessedly uneventful in your absence, but more importantly─what of your mission in the void?
Heavens forfend... That Azdaja should be used to birth a dread voidsent born of Zodiark's residual aether...
Although we could not have predicted this outcome, there is one small mercy: the voidsent containment seal. As we employed the selfsame brands that once imprisoned Zodiark in its creation, the seal should serve to hinder Zeromus.
Yet for how long, none can say, for our enemy's strength is unknowable, whilst the barrier was erected in haste.
Thou shalt rejoin our comrades anon to deliberate measures, yes? Then I shall remain here to maintain my vigil over the seal.
Should we observe signs of an impending incursion, rest assured I shall send word without delay. Go well, my friend.
Concern thyself not with matters here. Pray return to Radz-at-Han, where thou art needed.
Ah, Mistress Forename, we have been expecting you.
When the satrap and your comrades returned earlier, I couldn't help but notice that they were in low spirits. I hope it is nothing too serious...
But forgive me, you must be eager to join them. If you would follow me...
Do you remember Ciriatto and Farfarello? The cowardly pair of voidsent that dwelled in my domain.
Ciriatto devoured Farfarello.
And in so doing, he inherited an all-consuming fear of Barbariccia.
For as you know, when a voidsent is devoured, it doesn't simply cease to be. Its soul persists within the devourer.
And when a voidsent dies, all the souls that harbored may break free to become individual entities once more.
That is to say, by defeating Zeromus, we may yet save Azdaja.
And to make certain that we do, we must remind her of who she is.
When the time comes, you must call to her. Call with all your being.
Thy words give me heart, Zero. Thou hast my gratitude.
Then it's settled. Our objective is to defeat Zeromus.
While it is unsettling that a voidsent could be born of Zodiark's aether, its very nature may render it susceptible to the brands that once contained Him. Did Urianger have aught to say?
I see... If the seal may not hold for long, then haste is paramount.
Couldn't we just let it come to the Source and strike it down here?
Doing so would consign Azdaja's soul to the aetherial sea. Any attempt to ensure her survival demands that we deal with Zeromus in the Thirteenth.
I could barely go near it, never mind land a blow, so thick was the shroud of Darkness. How do you propose we fight such a foe?
Simple. Against impenetrable Darkness, we must wield resplendent Light.
And it just so happens there is a world replete with Light.
The question of how we will harness that Light you may leave to me.
With our recent discoveries and proven techniques, as well as the aid of comrades near and far, I have faith that we will find a way.
But only if I begin my work at once. Rest up while you can, for there will be much to do when I return.
It wouldn't do to be idle while our esteemed sorceress labors tirelessly. I shall be training if you have need of me.
Wait.
Allow me to join you. I must become stronger for what lies ahead.
Fine by me. Come on, then.
I shall not pass my time wallowing in despair. Using my vessel, I shall attend what preparations I may.
Azdaja is my sister, and long have I dreamed of saving her.
But if I am to do so, I must be better than I have been. Blessed though I am to have you and yours as comrades, I cannot well ask you to lift me up every time doubt and despair creep into my heart.
I won't falter again. This I swear. I will hold fast to my conviction, Forename, and I pray that you will stand with me to the last.
I won't falter again. This I swear. I will hold fast to my conviction, Forename, and I pray that you will stand with me to the last.
Zeromus is risen, but not yet at full strength. It will take time before the fiend is able to breach the veil.
But what is another moment on this long journey I have endured.
It remains as fresh as if it were yesterday, old friend. The memory of your passing...and the pain.
As I promised you then, I promise you now: they shall sing of Golbez─the hero who shattered the wheel and brought salvation to the world.
Ah, Forename. I was about to call for you.
There have been developments concerning the voidgate that I would discuss with everyone.
Coincidentally, I am told Y'shtola will be returning shortly.
I dare to hope she has made some progress in devising a way to harness the First's Light...
Come, let us await the others in my chambers.
My apologies for the delay.
Think nothing of it.
I pray thou art come with glad tidings?
With findings well worth many sleepless nights, I am pleased to report.
You may leave it there, thank you.
Eager though I am to hear the details, I must first share tidings of my own. Grave ones.
Urianger hath sent word from the voidgate in Mare Lamentorum. The situation is precarious.
They continue to rely upon the brands to contain the forces which would otherwise flow freely into the Source.
Yet though these measures were sufficient to imprison a fragment of Zodiark for eons, against our enemy's determined onslaught, they are degrading at an unsettling rate.
The Loporrits are sparing no effort to sustain the brands, but 'tis only a matter of time ere they fail.
Unless we act soon, there shall be no stopping Golbez from realizing his ambition.
That Zeromus should so test the seal even when not at full strength... 'Tis every bit as terrible as we feared.
Aye. We must needs vanquish it, to which end we require a means to pierce its Dark shroud.
So, did you find it? A way to bring resplendent Light to bear against our foe?
As a matter of fact, I have.
The theory was simple. We harness Light from the First and channel it to the Thirteenth.
Such a feat would require us to manipulate vast amounts of energy, to say the least...
And so I consulted Cid and his fellows, who rose to the challenge and produced bespoke devices: aether transmitters.
These marvelous contraptions can be placed at locations of our choosing to facilitate the flow of aether. In other words, we can use them to create aetherial currents.
That such a thing should be possible...
We shall first direct aether from Nabaath Areng, where the Flood of Light was halted, into the Crystal Tower. We all know from personal experience the wonders of which it is capable─wonders which suit our needs perfectly.
I should mention that the structure in the Azim Steppe which the Allagans built to redirect aether was also a source of inspiration.
Once we have infused the Crystal Tower with sufficient aether, we shall send it into the rift.
And the aether transmitters shall guide the energy unto the Thirteenth, like so.
In this way, we shall have a lance of Light with which to pierce the shield of Darkness.
...Or so I hope. No tests we performed were close to the scale of what we ultimately seek to achieve. I cannot guarantee success.
Indeed. We've harnessed the wisdom of the past, present, and future to further this cause. I too have faith that it will be enough in the end.
True enough. But that's not a point of pride for me personally.
Science and theory aside, we need to place one or more of these transmitters in the First, I take it?
A task we must entrust to you, Forename. Rest assured I will provide you with what support I can.
I wish to go as well.
This world that you brought back from the brink, I would see it with my own eyes.
But...how dost thou intend to make the journey?
In a spirit vessel. That's how you and yours managed it, yes?
Voidsent summoning also sees the soul separated from flesh. This separation I can do at will. The principles are similar enough.
If you aren't averse to traveling with company, I should be glad to lend Zero my vessel.
Then it's settled. I shall finish preparing the transmitters and then help Zero transfer her soul.
Pray see to your own preparations, and then let us reconvene at Meghaduta.
For a moment, I misunderstood and thought Y'shtola was proposing that Zero borrow her body. Which would have been...odd.
Y'shtola will be along after she has seen to Zero's soul. Let us await her here.
Apologies for the wait.
Everything went smoothly. Zero's soul is now safely within the spirit vessel.
I shall have the alchemists attend her body until she returns.
The vessel I place in your care, along with the transmitters and a set of garments for Zero.
I've also included instructions on how to operate the Crystal Tower, courtesy of G'raha Tia.
While you're away, I'll join Urianger and the Loporrits on the moon. They'll need help should the brands fail.
A fine idea. For my part, I shall continue to coordinate our efforts while I recover from my wounds.
Given the task at hand, I suggest you speak with Ryne. With her power over Light, she is bound to be helpful in our efforts.
But ere you do that or aught else, seek out Beq Lugg. As the First's foremost authority on soulcraft, they should be able to grant Zero a corporeal form.
As I recall, the old Nu Mou was rather fond of the Cabinet of Curiosity, so that should be your first stop.
That's all from me. Go forth, Warrior of Darkness, and make your triumphant return to the First!
Is that you, Forename? What brings you back across the rift?
Honestly! First you ask me to extract a soul from a spirit vessel...
And then you tell me you have designs to channel Light to another reflection!? Wicked white, Forename, is nothing ever simple with you?
<sigh> I suppose some people can't help but find themselves at the center of world-changing events. Very well. If your home is in peril, then I shall do all in my power to aid you.
While I tend to your companion, you should go and speak with Ryne.
By all accounts, she practically lives at the Hortorium these days. I will look for you there once I've finished.
Like I said, you'll most likely find Ryne at the Hortorium. Run along for now.
Restoring the elements to the Empty may allow life to flourish there once more...
But that isn't enough to return the environment to the way it was. No, we need to gradually reintroduce life, beginning with plants.
Not just any plants, though, but those that won't be a burden on a weakened land...
Such as...
Oh! What a welcome surprise!
It seems you caught me rambling to myself. How embarrassing...
I've been studying botany, you see, hoping that the knowledge would help our work in the Empty.
But never mind that for now. What brings you to the Crystarium? It was my understanding that the Final Days were behind us.
You wish to combat this otherworldly threat with the power of Light...?
Please let me help.
Though I've lost my connection to Hydaelyn, I can still manipulate Light to a degree.
If there is a chance I could save others with that power, then I have to try.
'Tis done. Zero is now with us in the flesh.
The spirit vessel, I shall hold on to for operating the tower.
This will help me to make sense of the controls, will it?
There's a levity in his words that wasn't there before. It heartens me to know he is well.
I shall see to the preparations as per his instructions.
My thanks for your help.
Think nothing of it. That said, 'tis customary that my kind receive fitting payment for services rendered...
Not unlike we voidsent, then. In that case, you may devour some of my aether.
Are you mad? I'll do no such thing! The very suggestion is absurd!
Now, now, let's calm down. We all have our preferences, and I'm sure no offense was intended.
I shall attend to the tower now. The rest, I leave to you.
Zero, was it? My name is Ryne. It's a pleasure to meet you.
This world isn't what I expected. While Light is indeed strong here, it's not pervasive or overwhelming. Everything looks much as it does in the Source.
We have the Warrior of Darkness to thank for that.
If you're interested, I would be glad to show you around.
Just an ordinary sky. Ordinary...and beautiful.
To think that, after so much loss, they could reclaim this...
We restored peace to the world, and I want to ensure that peace is preserved. That's why I'm learning everything I can.
I've heard something of your deeds here. Of how the Warrior of Darkness fought on, despite Light ravaging her very being.
Had I the selfsame strength of spirit, perhaps I could've done more for my world...
No. It isn't over yet. The Thirteenth isn't beyond saving. That's why we're here.
So, where to? Just lead the way.
I see they use aetherytes here as well. Not that I'll be able to, having not attuned to any. I trust you're willing to walk with me?
Let's head for Nabaath Areng. Since Zero can't teleport to the aetheryte there, we should probably travel by amaro.
Ah, there you are. Thank goodness I'm not too late.
Lyna! I take it Beq Lugg told you why she's here?
More or less.
Greetings and welcome. I am Lyna, captain of the guard here at the Crystarium.
Zero. Is there something you require...?
When I learned of your plan to gather Light at the Crystal Tower, I felt compelled to warn you of the potential repercussions.
I know well that you would never use the tower for ill, nor without due caution. Even so...
I believe I understand.
Ever since the Flood, Light has been a source of pain and misery. Some fear it still, no doubt.
Which is to say that some would be uncomfortable at the sight of it wielded as we intend. That is your concern, is it not?
Precisely.
It was Light that nearly consumed our world. To use the Crystal Tower to harness this destructive force risks turning the tower into an object of fear.
You may convince the Crystarium of the necessity of your cause, but it will not be so easy to win over those outside our walls.
I worry this will undermine the fragile trust that we have only begun to build with some communities. They may misunderstand your intentions.
Tell me who they are and what misunderstandings they may have. I shall allay their concerns.
Forename and I will go with her. People know us. Our presence will put them at ease.
Thank you. I realize this will delay the execution of your plans, but I see no other way.
As for where to begin...I daresay Eulmore would be as good a place as any.
Though ours is an amicable relationship now, we were at odds for long years.
Eulmore was once ruled by a tyrant who wielded the power of Light. Though he promised salvation, in truth he made slaves of his subjects, and sought to destroy any who defied him.
He's gone now, thankfully, and a good man named Chai-Nuzz was elected mayor. Relations between our cities have improved much since then.
Even so, there's a lingering rivalry between us. If the Crystarium were to harness Light without warning, some Eulmorans might suspect we have ulterior motives.
Thus would it be prudent to give them prior notice. If you explain that you seek to save the Warrior of Darkness's home, though, I should hope that they would give you their blessing.
Once again, yours is a name that commands respect and trust in the domain of your former enemies. As it does in Garlemald...
Where else should we visit?
After Eulmore, I would suggest the Rak'tika Greatwood.
There you will find the Night's Blessed, a small collective which worships Darkness, as well as the Viis, guardians of the secrets of ancient Ronka.
The Viis are insular and will likely not object unless the Light encroaches upon their territory. The Night's Blessed, on the other hand, would greatly benefit from your assurances that your actions will not adversely affect their lives.
People who worship Darkness... Fitting for a world all but consumed by Light.
Very well. We will treat with the people of Eulmore and the Night's Blessed.
Here, take these whisperweeds. I will let you know when all is in readiness with the tower.
Right, then. I should tend to my own tasks...
Explaining the situation to the people of the Crystarium, and arranging for your transmitters to be placed here and in Nabaath Areng.
We're truly grateful. Thank you, Lyna.
Come, let's head to Eulmore. Hopefully Chai-Nuzz will know how best to present our plan to everyone.
Forename, Ryne! Oh, what a wonderful surprise this is! And you've even brought a new friend!
Greetings, Warrior of Darkness. If you've come out of concern for our esteemed mayor, fear not. He runs the city well, and as ever prefers to work closely with the people, the better to hear their voice.
Look, Dulia-Chai and Wrenden are here too. Between the three of them, we should be able to get some good advice.
This is the great and powerful leader of Eulmore...? He must be possessed of subtle qualities that make him uniquely suited to the position.
Good gods, if it isn't Forename!
To what do we owe the pleasure? Not another world-ending threat, surely not. Surely not...?
Ah. And you wished to consult with me before making your plans known to the populace? Very well. What exactly did you have in mind...?
I doubt I'd ever describe myself as such, but anyway. I can tell you're up to something—the kind of something I might want nothing to do with, but regardless, I should probably know. What is it?
Gathering Light with the Crystal Tower, you say...
I would be lying if I said that doesn't bring back unpleasant memories, and I believe I speak for most Eulmorans.
We can hardly blame you...
We have no reason to question your motives, of course. Neither yours nor those of the Crystarium's leadership.
A world engulfed in Darkness, its corrupted inhabitants attempting to invade your own... It's rather a lot to process. But the desire to save one's home is something anyone can understand.
I'm touched that you show such concern for our feelings despite the gravity of your plight. Very well. You have my support.
As if there was ever any doubt! Right─let's gather the people at once. An explanation from you ought to ensure everyone understands.
N-Not so fast, dearest. If I were to reveal everything at this juncture, many would be deeply unsettled, regardless of any assurances I offered.
No, we need to first set the stage. Spread word of the Warrior of Darkness's plight─that she is on a mission to save her world, as she once did ours.
Once the tale is common knowledge, I shall call an assembly and explain the need to harness the power of Light to a populace far more amenable to the idea.
To that end, might I trouble you to speak with our citizens about your predicament? 'Twould be more effective to hear the details from the hero herself. More likely to inspire solidarity for your cause.
So we appeal to the desire to aid the Warrior of Darkness to present Light in a more positive...light. Well played, Master Chai.
If it's best that you do the talking, then we'll come with you.
Fine by me. I'm content to observe.
Once you have finished your rounds, I ask that you report to me. I should like to know how the people react.
Lead the way, Forename. We'll be right behind you.
I am acutely aware of my limitations and know that I am not the most persuasive speaker, thank you. We should do our utmost to make the people more receptive before I address them.
The people of Eulmore have tremendous faith in both you and Master Chai. They would not still be here otherwise─I myself included.
So Zero can travel here freely like you? Would that Alphinaud could do the same. I miss him dearly...
While Lyna and Master Chai couldn't be more different, they're both mindful of how their actions may affect others. They're both good leaders, and there's much I hope to learn from them.
From that conversation alone, I could see how much the people here trust you.
Thanks to Jullus and Thancred, I've grown better at recognizing it.
What? You've met Thancred too?
I mean, uh... Right. Of course you have. I don't know why I said that...
Right, let's find some citizens to speak with. I suggest we start here in the Canopy before heading down to the Understory and then the Derelicts.
Though the Crystarium is my home now, I still visit Eulmore on occasion.
And each time I'm here, I can feel that the city has changed. The mood is brighter, and the people happier.
We can't allow all that hard-won progress to be undone. Let's do our best to reassure everyone.
Oh, has something come up? That's all right. Zero and I can wait for you at the aetheryte plaza.
Taken care of things, have you? Then lead the way!
A tower, growing more decadent as it rises, set upon an isolated sliver of land... Reminiscent of a voidsent domain.
Built by those who yearned for better times. Who ached for the shadow of a memory.
Yet I saw no such desperation in the Crystarium. Despite their shared tragedy, the two cities couldn't feel more different.
You have other business? There's nothing else I care to do here, so I will wait for you at the main plaza.
There you are. Back to it, then.
Thancred once told me that people come to these places to “savor some memories and drown the others.”
I imagine the Beehive was built primarily to help Eulmorans forget about sin eaters, even if only for a time. But now they can simply enjoy themselves.
I can see the appeal... But don't worry! I know I'm still a bit too young for it...
A tavern, and an extravagant one at that. But those dancers engage with the poles in such strange ways.
Are they pantomiming a battle? A soldier thrusting their spear into the ground and using it to launch themselves at an enemy, perhaps...?
Given this world's violent history, it makes sense that displays of martial prowess would become popular entertainment.
