I should've never betrayed your trust. Never again, I swore. Never again.
Balam-Quitz, the Shadowkeeper, the Flood─come what may, we would face it together. No matter how hard it got, or how terrified I was...
That's what it means to let someone into your heart, knowing full well that nothing lasts forever. To welcome the fear, and the pain. The sorrow. When I lost my parents. When we laid the keeper low. You felt it too, didn't you?
To place our faith in a desperate, hopeless attempt to save everyone...and to see it amount to naught in the end.
What else could we do but offer up that tiny remainder in a final, futile effort? Even knowing, deep down, it was worth but a few moments more...
What is this...
You gave me fear...and that fear gave me strength...
Wait! There's so much I want to ask!
I don't understand. What was she talking about?
It's not right. It's not fair. Heroes sacrificing themselves for nothing. Becoming villains. Being forgotten...
...Thank you, Forename. I could have never gotten this far without your help.
I had no idea who Renda-Rae or any of the other Warriors of Light truly were. 'Twas all ancient history to me. Why would I care who some eaters once were?
I was no better than my parents, judging them out of hand. Dismissing their sacrifice, not bothering to look deeper. It made it all the easier to pursue Andreia for my own amusement.
I pray I've made up for it in part by helping to lay Renda-Rae's soul to rest...
Miss Olvara is probably worried sick about us both. I...we should return to Kholusia and let her know we're all right.
I can't wait to tell Miss Olvara everything! And I should definitely use some of the bounty to treat her...
My little Reeq, Forename! Congratulations on a job well done!
And from one hunter to another, thank you for helping Renda-Rae to achieve a measure of peace. She was a hero to me too, and it broke my heart to know what had become of her...
To have your legacy tarnished so, to have the world call you villain, even still. But at least I can take comfort in knowing she can finally enjoy a long rest.
Whatever others may say, we will preserve the truth in story and song. Renda-Rae, the bravest hunter there ever was! And, more importantly, a true friend to those she held dear.
I can only hope to measure up to her example someday! For now, however, I say we return to the Crystarium and raise a glass in celebration!
...So she brought down Balam-Quitz not alone, but with the aid of her comrades? Hmm...it may not be the story I was taught, but somehow...somehow it rings truer to my ear...
Andreia's bounty has been paid to us in full, my friend! So come─let us eat, drink, and be merry!
I've been meaning to ask, Forename...but I have the impression you are rather more acquainted with these Warriors of Light than you've been letting on. What exactly do you know about them?
That...that is so preposterous a tale that I have no choice but to assume it is true. Offering up their lives to first cross the rift, then to halt the Flood... Wicked white...
It must've taken her so much courage to see it through in those final moments.
A courage born not of a desire for glory or dedication to an ideal, but of fear and love for those with whom she had forged unshakable bonds. Her comrades.
I won't pretend that we have anything even approaching such a powerful connection, but I would like to think that if you were in mortal peril that I would fly to your side without hesitation...
Having said that, if I were tested as Renda-Rae were─if I were challenged to offer up my life for others, without even knowing if it would amount to aught...I doubt I could rise to the occasion.
I am a child and a fool who knows little of the world. I have been coddled and spoiled, and have only just tasted the bitter fruits of life that you and countless others sup on daily.
You are made of sterner stuff, Forename. Far sterner than me...and that is why I know I can never walk your path.
How could I not? I cannot recall a time I have felt happier and more alive than when I have traveled with you.
Oh, but there is! I cannot recall a time I have felt happier and more alive than when I have traveled with you.
But you have countless other journeys ahead of you, don't you? For you are destined for greater challenges─whereas I am suited to rather more pedestrian affairs. Know your limits, as Miss Olvara used to say.
Meeting her again after all these years─seeing how much older and more frail she'd become made me realize how little time together we have left. She shouldn't have to live out her days living alone and in squalor.
I have decided it will not be so. I shall return to Kholusia and attend to her needs, for I would do my utmost to repay the love and kindness that made me the man I am today.
Therefore, though it pains me to say it, I fear this celebration must also mark the end─or at the very least a tentative suspension─of the glorious partnership that was Reeq and Forename, bounty hunters extraordinaire.
Should you ever find yourself in Kholusia, however, do come and pay us a visit!
Would you believe that Reeq bought me a whole new wardrobe with his winnings? He really did, the dear!
But everything looks just so awfully nice that I can't bring myself to wear any of it outside. It all looks lovely hanging on the walls, though!
Hello again, Forename! Still living the life of a traveling sinner, I see. I hope you aren't here to ask me to join you? Terribly sorry, but now's not a good time.
Oh, but every time I think back on our adventures together, it brings a smile to my face. Reeq and Forename, hunters extraordinaire! We must do it again one day─when I'm strong enough to hold my own, that is...
I'm reliably informed you've dealt with the impostor Ardbert. I never doubted that you'd do it, my friend. Wherever she is, Renda-Rae will surely be pleased.
...By the way, how was I out there? Thought I did pretty well, even if I do say so myself. When the commotion broke out, like the others, I couldn't help but go and see what was happening. And I'm glad I did!
