...From the heavens comes the rain which nourishes the soil. From the soil comes the grass which nourishes the beast. From the beast comes the flesh which nourishes the Xaela. Ours is the soil of one and all.
But you Westerners are like the Domans─you live in the same place. In villages. And all the villages in one place are part of a “nation,” yes?
Hien talks about nations sometimes. When he was injured, he spoke of Doma in his sleep, but I did not understand his words.
Whenever I ask him about Doma, he just smiles and looks to the south...
It reminds me of my mother when she waits for my father to return from a long journey... But Hien will not wait any longer, will he? Because you came for him. To take him back...because his nation is more important...
Um...I'm not sure how to answer this...
A nation...is a place, I suppose. A place...and the people in it...and maybe the things, too...
But more than that, it's the history, the traditions, the words. The stories we tell ourselves and our children. Everything that came before and everything that comes after.
The place we were born is part of who we are. We carry it with us, no matter where we go. Whoever...whatever we become, that part remains─that link to our fathers and their fathers before them...
It's...it's not important to everyone, I suppose, and that's fine. But it's important to Hien. And to me.
...Some call the Mol fools for listening to the elder gods, but it is our way. Our pride. Our...nation?
Something like that. It's something precious that you and others share─and that no one can ever take from you.
But we can talk more about it later! It's time to go home. Dorbei is waiting!
I'll stay with the children. Why not go and let Cirina know how we got on?
Welcome back, Forename. Did you speak with Dorbei?
Well, well! Then you will forgive me if I ask you to wash your hands. I shall pour you a cup of milk tea in the meantime.
The meal is almost ready, so we should summon Hien and Gosetsu...
She needed the rest. To come so far and carry so much...
Hien and his friend, too. Strange that they should vanish so soon.
Hah! Haaagh!
Not troubled by your old wounds, I see.
Hm. Nor you by yours.
I know I should have fled with the others after Father died, instead of blindly fighting on.
It was reckless and foolish, and there was naught to be gained from it. Everything to lose, rather...
We know no path save the one we walk. I myself am in no hurry to meet those who have gone before─not while I have still to make amends.
Well said.
You are none the worse for your time in the wilderness. On the contrary,I would say you have improved.
Come now, your victories still far exceed mine. Or have you forgotten all the times you trounced me as a boy?
I...feared I would not see you again.
A life so fortuitously saved should be spent wisely. Without regret would I have traded it for our people's amnesty, had it been their will.
Instead they have called for the sword, and so that is what I must be.Until this blade is broken, I can but carve a path forward.
...Were you truly so concerned for my well-being?You never showed it when we used to spar.
How you cried when you lost. And when your mother tried to comfort you. And when you inevitably came at me once more, swinging your wooden sword wildly...
Mina's little Master Shun. What a fine young man you've become!
A man should not be addressed by his childhood name.I've told you about that before!
Ah, the mask slips! And I was so close to cultivating a winning persona.
There will be opportunity enough for putting on airs after you have returned in triumph to Doma. Now is the time to show our true character.
Quite right! Which makes me think you should join us next time. I daresay you have a secret or two of your own to share!
...Yes, yes, 'tis a name my parents gave me as a child—but I should like to think I have long since outgrown it!
But as you seem determined to bring it back into use, I believe a match is in order. If I win, you will be honor-bound to divulge one of your darkest secrets.
Oh, you need not doubt my conviction. I have but one goal, to which I am wholly devoted. Join us next time, and you shall see for yourself!
Well, my friends! I for one am full of vim and vigor! I trust you feel the same?
Then what better time than now to undertake our trial, and become full-fledged warriors of the Mol!
Now then, Cirina, if you would tell us of the trial we must undertake that we might participate in the Naadam.
Ah, yes! As I mentioned before, to be recognized as warriors of the Steppe, one must follow in the footsteps of the legendary warrior Bardam.
He embarked on a great pilgrimage, eschewing cart and horse, and walked for many malms until he came to a holy place, thereafter named Bardam's Mettle. There, at the altar, as he did, you must pray.
The altar lies deep within the breeding grounds of the yol. To complete your trial, you must tame one. Only then will your trial be complete.
Fair enough. And where is the entrance to Bardam's Mettle?
You must journey far, far to the west─beyond Chakha Zoh, where lie the bones of a great and wise woman.
Beyond the ruins of Ceol Aen, hidden within the mountains is a narrow pass. Follow it, and you will come to Bardam's Mettle.
Sounds to me like it'll be a trial just getting to the trial...
More than you may know. On the eve of the Naadam, many strive to improve their fortunes─some by abducting and enslaving the warriors of other tribes.
Be ever mindful of your surroundings, lest you be taken as well.
Hah! What grim expressions you wear while nodding so powerfully! Warriors such as you are not like to fall en route to a mere rite of passage.
We shall proceed with all due caution, yes, but let us not worry overmuch.
We will overcome this trial, and the next, and the next, until we stand triumphant. That is all there is to it, no?
With me, my friends! To the west! To Bardam's Mettle!
W-Wait, Hien! Oh dear. I knew I would forget.
Here─take these whistles. Once tamed, your yol will hearken to their call.
Thanks. We'll try them out once we've finished the trial.
Let's catch up to Hien and Gosetsu!
We still have a long way to go, but I think I can see that monument Cirina talked about.
I don't see Hien or Gosetsu, though. We should hurry!
Hey...I don't know about you, but I can't shake the feeling someone's watching us.
Cirina did warn us about tribes that kidnap warriors and make them fight for them. Something tells me we're about to meet them...
Ah, there you are. As you can see, they left us little choice.
I gather you were forced to dispatch a few yourself? So it goes. A few less warriors to face in the Naadam, eh?
Ceol Aen is not much further. That said, I should be surprised if our would-be masters do not try to subdue us one final time...
Right. This must be the pass that leads to Bardam's Mettle.
They say no foreigners have overcome this trial, but, well, there is a first time for everything, no?
Nothing left but to begin, then.
To complete the trial, we must pass through Bardam's Mettle and each tame a yol. How precisely we are to do this, I am not sure, but since countless warriors before us have succeeded, I imagine we'll muddle through somehow...
But enough talk! We have a Naadam to win!
This day, we shall be warriors born anew!
Hear, hear!
