Are you not one of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn? I thought you were meant to be working on the aetherburner...
Theopauldin's paperwork! I was beginning to worry he had misplaced his quill.
I appreciate your help in seeing these documents to my hands at last. As for your other task...
Pray keep this between us, but I sincerely hope you Scions succeed.
The exodus is, without a doubt, the most monumental undertaking in the history of the Forum, and so we must be circumspect in all respects. Risk is a privilege we cannot afford ourselves.
At its heart, however, Sharlayan has ever been a nation of the curious. 'Twould be a tragedy indeed if we were the ones to stymie your pursuit of truth.
Quick and efficient. I daresay you have a talent for this work.
The twins' papers only needed be delivered to elsewhere in the facility, so they should be returning any moment...
We return—with not a scrap of paperwork remaining on our persons, you will note.
You both have my thanks─and my apologies for sending you on an errand far below your ambitions. Why, even as a babe, you struggled out of your swaddling clothes, and...
That is quite enough of that, thank you! It was compromising stories of our parents that we'd asked to hear, to reiterate.
Of course, of course. I've known your father for so long, I must have something. Hm...
Well...as you know, part of why the Leveilleur name garners such respect in Sharlayan is your family's storied history.
You two can trace your ancestry directly to those who came aboard Nyunkrepf's Hope─a lineage few can claim.
I've never thought much of it myself. It's not as though our forebears founded our nation. They were simply there when it happened.
Nevertheless, it has traditionally been a point of pride.
'Tis why Nyunkrepf's pronouncement─“Renounce the ways of war, and pursue enlightenment through knowledge and reason”─has ever been our family's creed.
Until your grandfather's time, aye.
Archon Louisoix looked not to Nyunkrepf's words, but his deeds. He asserted, in defiance of his peers, that choosing to save the great and the small from the rising tides was the true mark of our founder's virtue.
Perhaps it was his expertise─his knowledge of ancient prophecy and the fall of civilizations─that led to him to conclude that to eschew conflict at every turn was to consign mankind to his doom...
There will ever be conflict, and calamity will follow. Thus...
“To ignore the plight of those one might conceivably save is not wisdom─it is indolence.”
You remember his words well. Indeed, Archon Louisoix lived by that personal creed, and used every means at his disposal to bring succor to those in need─Sharlayan or no.
No one loved and admired your grandfather more than his son...
Yet Fourchenault could not reconcile Louisoix's deeds with the philosophy of their forebears and his peers─a philosophy in which he believed so fervently, yet made a pariah of his father.
Fourchenault agonized over this contradiction for much of his life.
Gods, Father...
A son may carry his father's blood, but his choices are his own to bear─is it not always thus?
Gods know Fourchenault's a cranky old goat, so I'm sure you butt heads often enough. Yet even so, you must know that you are constantly in his thoughts. Every moment of every day─and that is not an exaggeration in the slightest!
You should have seen him when you were born─barely recognizable, he was, with a kind of dumbfounded grin I'd not seen since he first took a fancy to your mother. He was practically skipping when he told me the news.
Take my word for it─he loves you to an embarrassing degree.
But he is also frustratingly single-minded. Once he's decided that a given action is for the best, he will stay the course no matter who or what opposes him.
A profoundly annoying habit when you're on the other end of it, as I'm sure you will agree.
I'll say!
Thank you for your insight. When next we meet our parents, I shall mention that we spoke.
Try not to get me into too much trouble, now! I need the Forum on my side.
Speaking of which, I ought to be getting back to work. I have to make sure those specimens you brought make it to their proper places, or the cranky old goat will have my hide. We can speak again later!
Hail, you three!
G'raha! Surely Kokkol hasn't driven you out of the forge already?
For better or for worse, no. However, he has set me a task that requires more than my single pair of hands...and here you are!
I could use at least one of you, but I won't object to more.
Unfortunately, Alisaie and I have prior commitments, and we have delayed too long as it is...
What about you, Forename? Can you spare the time?
Perfect! This shouldn't take long.
Much as I'd like to press Theopauldin for more revealing tidbits, we should be getting back to our tasks.
'Tis strange to hear Father spoken of in such a way...but I suppose he would find your view of me no less odd.
In the event that our─and I quote─“promised heap of adamantite falls right out of the bloody sky and into my lap,” Master Kokkol wishes to be ready to put the proverbial hammer to anvil at a moment's notice.
To fabricate these parts, however, he needs the flames in Kokkol's Forge to burn hotter. He sent me to increase the amount of aether being funneled to his furnaces.
The flow of fire-aspected aether in Labyrinthos is regulated by an elemental reactor south of here─to which I have borrowed the key.
The adjustment will require two people to carry out safely...but I can explain the process when we arrive.
This is where we part, then.
We'll see you in Sharlayan Hamlet once the adamantite arrives, if not before.
This way, then!
The reactor is housed within this facility.
I'll be the one to go inside and adjust the fire aether output.
When I do, a rather large amount of water-aspected aether will issue from the vent at the top. I expect this to attract at least a few elementals─which we would both rather not be drawn into the reactor itself. Trust me.
Can I ask that you put down any that draw too near? They'll pose you little trouble, I'm sure.
Wait here, if you would!
Wait here, if you would!
Wait here, if you would!
Wait here, if you would!
Did everything go smoothly out here?
I thought as much. No major complications to speak of inside, either.
...And the water aether appears to be venting properly.
I expect Kokkol will have seen a difference in his forge-flames by the time I return.
Since I have you...there was another matter I thought to discuss with you.
Nothing terribly important─merely something I've been considering.
Part of this, I shared with everyone. Yet you, and only you, have been to Elpis...
As we have established, refined adamantite is a product of Allag. Of the empire's twilight years, in fact.
It was a material which saw much use as part of the Allagans' efforts to extend beyond the bounds of this world─Dalamud, of course, being the most prominent.
Of those who would push further─expand Allag's empire to encompass the heavens and the stars above─perhaps the greatest was its infamous technologist, Amon.
He did. He must have had his own reasons, however, for there is no evidence to suggest that he retained memories of his life as an ancient.
I believe he had his own reasons. There is no evidence to suggest that he retained memories of his former life.
He only joined the Ascians once the empire was all but dust, as you know.
If not his memory, though, what drove him to pursue the idea with such fervor?
This may seem far-fetched, but what if souls, like minds, have...a personality, so to speak? A natural disposition towards which they are inclined?
We know with relative certainty that it was the gross decadence and inexorable decline of Allag that moved Amon to resurrect Emperor Xande.
The empire's people spoke lightly of death and destruction, experimenting on those they deemed beneath them to fill the emptiness in their hearts.
In facilitating Xande's return, Amon provided these languid souls with the means to free themselves from the mire of their own indolence.
...Or would have, had not Xande been convinced by his own death that life itself was meaningless.
Amon's desire for his countrymen to conquer the heavens could only be a means to the same end─to instill the people with new purpose.
Like Hermes before him, Amon was appalled by how those around him lived, but could never bring himself to believe that those lives were devoid of meaning.
And both of them sought that meaning, that hope, in the distant stars.
...Such is my theory, anyway.
Ultimately, it is the consequences of their actions which matter. Their motives are of no moment. And yet...
To reach those stars on wings of adamantite. To travel to the ends of creation and beyond. The promise of hope everlasting...that much I do understand.
But enough musing for now. Why don't we see how Kokkol is getting on?
I did thoroughly brief Kokkol on refined adamantite's history. I only volunteered to go to the reactor because I was finished and there was little else to do.
Hopefully that dispels any misapprehensions that I was kicked out for prattling on...
Whew! I can feel those flames a-blazin' from here!
Glad you found someone capable, G'raha, but there's not much left for you lot to do.
'Less you can conjure up that refined adamantite any faster...?
<sigh> I do trust you to deliver on your promise, I do. Only...
I hate waitin'! I want that adamantite, and I want it now!
We...er, share your impatience, I assure you. Is there truly nothing else we can assist with in the meantime?
I wish! This sittin' about's unbearable. Pity the Forum frowns on recreational explosions...
Well, so long as they can't prove it was premeditated. Get you gone─I've mistakes to make!
...In that case, I suppose I should go and return the key to the reactor. I'll have one more look to make sure that nothing has gone wrong. Unintentionally or otherwise.
I'm certain there are better uses for your time, however. I will join you in Sharlayan Hamlet anon!
Any smoke risin' from the building behind me will be entirely unrelated to what I didn't say, got it?
Any smoke risin' from the building behind me will be entirely unrelated to what I didn't say, got it?
All set, I take it?
We've finished what we could. Delivered supplies, tracked down escaped animals...trivial tasks as they may be.
That's enough, don't you think? If there was anything more important still undone, that would be a problem in itself.
The vessel is essentially ready for departure. All that remains is to load the final batch of supplies and see everyone on board. Once we've readied the aetherburner, that is...
Ah...had a feeling we might find you all here.
Our consultations with the Loporrits, too, have run their course. Pleased I am to say that our researchers' concerns have for the most part been allayed, though some insist on making adjustments to the very end.
For their part, Livingway and her peers have graciously offered to stay and keep the people company, lest any lingering queries go unanswered.
All that remains is to wait for the refined adamantite...
Alphinaud, are you there? It's me, Krile.
Your special delivery has arrived! Round up everyone and come to the harbor at once!
Speak of the devil... Let us go at once!
Forgive the intrusion, Master Fourchenault─I bring urgent news!
A great commotion has broken out in Scholar's Harbor. Your presence is requested with all speed!
Now, where might this delivery be?
Oh!
I'm sure it's very important, but we cannot accept these without the proper permits!
By the Twelve! Surely these can't all be...
Bleedin' hellfire! They're bringin' 'em by sea and by air! All these folks and these crates...
And more on the way. Got your adamantite right here─a bigger haul than any o' these sorry bastards brought, and that's no lie!
Yes, because you were charged with seeing the shipments from Gridania and Ul'dah here along with your own. Give credit where credit is due.
Sounds like the sorry whingin' of a sore loser─an' a hypocrite to boot. Ain't no way a scrawny whelp like you took a dozen steps inside a Dalamud shard.
I'll have you know I went all the way to the entrance! I played a vital role in keeping a lookout whilst our expeditionary forces secured the adamantite.
Left you outside so you wouldn't get anyone killed, did they? Well then, credit where credit's due─you did a right fine job sittin' on your arse!
Take that back!
Make me.
I will not stoop to your level!
My, what a grand welcome party!
Hancock! And Soroban!
We come bearing relics both sacred and Allagan─as well as a few other gifts that may be of help─to be presented with best wishes from the Eastern alliance.
I myself have come with a sacred relic of the Kojin. Upon learning of your need, Bunchin bade me deliver it on behalf of the Blue with all haste.
Fearing I could not swim here with the necessary speed, however, I thought to beg our Confederate allies for aid. To my delight, Hancock was already preparing for departure at the selfsame port, and had space for additional cargo.
We did, of course, need quite the impressive vessel to get it all here in time.
That is all wonderful to hear, but what of the extraordinary cost? I shudder to think of the ransom we must pay for such a bounty...
Fret not for your coinpurse, young Alphinaud!
Lord Lolorito looks ever towards the profits of the future, and thus the East Aldenard Trading Company went to some lengths to reduce the financial liability.
And since the Scions funded the entire venture, not a gil need be rendered up in compensation. Everything is already yours!
We funded the venture? When...?
Muahahaha!
Don't let the name fool you─this coinkeeper knows a thing or two about spending.
When it comes to capital investiture, a sprinkling of gil here and there will not do! You need enough savings to make waves when it really counts...which is why frugality is paramount.
We also had the benefit of a generous patron─“generous” being rather an understatement...
She has supported us from the shadows since the very founding of the Scions, ere we even had coffers to fill...
Mother!?
Ameliance...
I remain, of course, an entirely neutral party. I simply thought our family's coffers were needlessly full.
We can hardly take them with us on your “teeny-tiny toy boat,” now, can we? And 'twould be a shame to leave all that hard-earned wealth unspent.
