We did it! We showed the bastards!
Aye! Victory is ours!
And who knows, lads? Mayhap the Eorzeans'll finally see sense...when the enemy turns up on their bloody doorstep!
This is for Ala Mhigo... For Eorzea...
They die, that others may live...
Vanguards! Attack!
Seven hells, d'ye hear that?
War machines... How did they get here so quickly!?
S-Stand your ground! For the Resistance!
There's nowhere to run! We're cut off!
Aaagh!
Gods help us... What were we thinking? The Empire's too big... Too powerful...
Mighty Rhalgr... Grant us...the strength...to crush...our...
There you are!
As you can see, our infiltrators did not elude me for long. Lady Yugiri is sending for an airship even as we speak.
What do we do!? This is a massacre!
Heh heh heh heh... How wonderful to see you...Commander.
Ilberd! I should have known...
This has to end! It has to end now! Do you not see your countrymen dying? Have your ideals rendered you blind even to that!? Order the retreat, and we will help your soldiers to safety!
Retreat? With the moment of my triumph so close at hand? You truly are a sheltered child, Leveilleur.
Nidhogg's eyes! ...No abyss is too deep for you, I see. But trust me when I say that such power was not meant for mortal hands!
How long have I struggled to reach this point! My countrymen so inured to the taste of defeat, they no longer balk at its bitterness. Shouting my throat raw with rallying cries, only to be greeted with dull eyes and blank faces!
My “brothers” and “sisters” in Ul'dah have surrendered to their apathy and their appetites. Were it not for the glint of Lolorito's coin, I doubt even those here now would have answered my call!
“Take back our homeland! Free Ala Mhigo!” Hah! They'll happily mouth the words, but they won't spill the blood!
You say no mortal should wield these eyes? Then I shall gladly become a demon! I will suckle on the souls of the hopeless, and liberate the homeland they no longer deserve!
What exactly do you mean to do...?
Did you hear their cries as victory was snatched away from them? Even with their dying breaths they cursed the Empire! Never has their desire for vengeance been so raw, so true! A god has no need of faith when summoned by so pure a purpose!
Summoned!?
You cannot mean to fight the Empire with a primal! You know full well the danger─the futility of relying on such power!
Oh, yes, I know their limitations─which is why I will call upon a deity more terrible than the very black wyrm of the Calamity itself!
What... Here!? Now!?
Like hells you will!
An ending to mark a new beginning... My pain! My longing! You shall have it all!
Hahaha─aaaaaaargh!
This light, is it...
His death completed the ritual. The primal is taking shape.
Well, can't we stop it!? There must be something we can do!
There is...one thing.
Wha─? Hey! Where do you think you're going!?
Master Louisoix briefly contained Bahamut by means of a potent spell of sealing. I will now attempt to do the same.
But that's impossible! We would need hours to collect the necessary aether, i-if not days!
Ah, Alphinaud... Though I concede it may not always be apparent, I was ever your grandsire's finest pupil.
Tupsimati, of course! The staff still holds enormous power, broken or not.
Don't you dare, Papalymo! I know how that spell works!
It is time to leave!
Quite right! Quickly, now! Off you go! The further away the better!
No! If you're staying, then so am I!
No, Yda! There is a path only you can walk, and it must not end here─not like this!
Take her! Please, you have to take her!
Ugh...
Wha─ No! Damn it, Thancred! Put me down! Thancred!
This is one battle you cannot fight. Away with you. Go!
Hilda! I think he means now!
I bid thee farewell again, my dear Yda...
Now, let us see how good a student I truly was...
Why...?
Why didn't they let me stay!?
Papalymo is my friend! I should have been there with him!
You could see it in his eyes, Yda. He knew what he was doing─what had to be done.
Master Louisoix wore that same look, right before the end...
Do you think I don't know that!? I know, all right! I know.
There is nothing more you could have done. Ilberd caught us all off guard. Even Forename was powerless to stop him.
If you must blame someone, then blame me. Just promise that you will never forget what Papalymo strove to protect, or the lessons he tried to teach you.
...Don't. Don't speak to me.
Leave Yda with me. Go on. Go back to the Rising Stones. The others need to know what happened here.
...Once again, I find myself at a loss for words.
But Thancred is right. We must return to the Rising Stones and apprise our companions of...all of this.
Pray make your way there at once. I will send word to Y'shtola and the others of our imminent return.
...'Twould seem you bring ill tidings, Brother.
...Aye. Behind the Griffin's mask, we found the grinning face of an old adversary... Ilberd. I know not how, but he had in his possession the eyes of Nidhogg, whose dread power he used to initiate a summoning ritual, even as we looked on...
By the Twelve...
I don't understand. To attempt such a magick requires every onze of one's aether. No one─not even Grandfather─could cast it and hope to survive...
Indeed. It was ever a last resort─as I am certain Papalymo was aware.
Thus did the pupil follow in the footsteps of his master...even unto the grave.
I have as yet been unable to explain how Ilberd came to possess Nidhogg's eyes.
In the depths of the Sea of Clouds, a perpetual storm of water- and wind-aspected aether rages. No mortal could endure such conditions.
Then mayhap it was the work of an Ascian. But now is not the time for idle speculation. Krile, I have need of your assistance.
I─ Yes. Yes, of course.
We must inspect the cocoon of light, and ascertain the state of the primal trapped within. Between our respective talents, I daresay we shall glean some measure of insight.
Understood. I can't promise I'll be able to sense much through the barrier, but I shall certainly do my best.
As shall I. Let us be about it, then.
...What, without so much as a “by your leave”!?
Pray forgive Archon Y'shtola her brevity. She seeketh employment, lest her grief deprive her of the will to act. A desire to comfort Yda doubtless compoundeth her unseemly haste.
I, too, must contend with this grievous loss in mine own way. By thy leave, Lady Alisaie, I shall honor our fallen colleague through gainful study. There exist writings which may yet further our understanding of this cocoon of light...
...Mayhap I was too quick to judge. Surrendering to sadness and regret would be a poor tribute to Papalymo's sacrifice.
Quite. We must begin preparations to face Ilberd's accursed creation without delay. What time we have was purchased at too dear a price for us to squander it.
Ah, Forename. I wish I had more to tell you, but the situation in the East Shroud remains largely unchanged.
...Meaning we still have no idea how long it will be before─
A communication from the Alliance! One moment.
...Yes, of course. Our representatives will be present. My thanks.
Word from Gridania: the council will shortly be reconvened. The Alliance leaders have already begun to assemble.
They wish to discuss the primal, of course. As of Y'shtola's last report, the cocoon yet hung above the Wall, unchanged...
Yes. But the Elder Seedseer doubtless shares our concerns about how long it will remain so. I am told that Cid Garlond has been called in to add his expertise to proceedings.
A wise decision. The more minds we have working on this, the better.
Well then, I suggest we leave the Rising Stones in Tataru's capable hands and make haste for the Lotus Stand.
