Glory be... Glory be... Glory be...
Glory be...to Garlemald!
Glory be...to Garlemald!
The piles have been driven as planned, and the first of the beasts has roared to life.
Moreover, I am pleased to report that preparations are well underway for the rest. Ere long, chaos shall reign over all the land─as befits the Final Days.
Call it what you will. So long as my friend returns to me, fangs bared and claws sharpened, I care not.
Of course, my lord. By strange coincidence, your dear friend chanced to be present when I made my declaration.
I took the liberty of informing her that you await her coming. Though, I confess, I may have singed her a little in the process.
And why do you tell me this? Are you in such a hurry to die?
Ah, my apologies. I must guard my tongue lest it be the end of me.
Though...there is something to be said for such a glorious death. Better to fall to one who has it all than falter before an inferior... I shall keep it in mind as a contingency.
For now, however, I shall proceed with the plan. My lord.
I must find myself a new weapon. One worthy of our long-awaited reunion.
Good news, Forename! Thancred and Urianger have finished their tour of Garlemald, and are on their way back here even as we speak.
As we still haven't heard anything on the towers from the Alliance, I'm hoping they might be able to shed some light on things.
They're due to arrive any moment now, so let's see what they have to say, eh?
Ah, a welcoming party. You needn't have gone to the trouble. From what I hear, you've been more than busy enough as it is.
Honestly, you might have waited for me to return before discovering a cure for tempering. As it is, I can't even pretend to have been involved!
Well, if it's any consolation, I myself was little more than a spectator. The lion's share of the credit must go to Alisaie, G'raha, and Forename. But I believe I speak for the rest of us when I say we are proud to have rendered what little assistance we could.
As you will also have heard, though, it hasn't all been tales of triumph. Just as we were taking a step towards finally addressing the primal threat, a pile of fresh problems landed in our lap.
Anyway, it's good to have you back. Though I can't help noticing that we're one Urianger short of a scouting party. You haven't lost him, have you?
Oh, I couldn't lose him if I tried. And I did try. Repeatedly. But no, he decided to linger in Ala Mhigo to apprise Raubahn and the others of how the land lies in Garlemald.
Then mayhap you would do the same for us.
Indeed. It was just as Lyse said. Worse, in fact. Devastation as far as the eye could see.
Nerva and the IIIrd, however, were notable by their absence.
Might they have met their end at the hands of Zenos and Fandaniel?
Perhaps. Or perhaps they simply lost the will to fight.
You see, the capital has been plunged into a deathly silence, with one exception: the imperial palace.
It was a busy place before the war, but it has grown busier still, with throngs of soldiers and civilians working there day and night to rebuild─or rather, transform it.
Transform it? Into what?
That...is a difficult question to answer. The construction is vast and unsettling to behold, like something from a nightmare. According to Urianger, certain aspects of its design were clearly devised with the manipulation of aether in mind. Magitek, in other words.
Yet as unnerving as said edifice was, it was nothing next to the sight of its builders. They swarmed the place like so many insects, working with nary a word exchanged between them. No one overseeing construction, no one barking orders. It was as if they were possessed...or tempered.
We wanted to investigate more closely, but given our suspicions, it seemed wiser not to take the risk.
Hmm... If Fandaniel could bind Bahamut to his will, might he have done the same to the people of Garlemald?
Whatever the truth may be, this information is certain to prove valuable. You have our thanks.
Well, be sure to save some for Urianger. Which reminds me, I have a message from Ala Mhigo.
Raubahn is hosting a meeting to discuss the latest findings on the towers, and he requested our presence.
Then why not leave that to us? You must be weary from your mission.
No, no, I'm fine. Those towers have been on my mind since I first spied one on the way back, and I'm keen to get to the bottom of this.
In that case, I shall stay and begin looking into another matter, as I promised Krile. We need not all attend.
Very well, I suggest the rest of us make our way to Ala Mhigo forthwith. The sooner we leave, the more time we will have to speak with Urianger before the meeting.
My friends. Much and more have I heard of your travails in our absence. Heartened am I to see you all hale and whole.
As are we to see you safely returned from your mission, Urianger. I trust Thancred made you feel welcome?
Well, well! If it isn't Alphinaud and his merry band!
Arenvald! Whatever are you doing here? When we spoke via linkpearl, you told me you'd be away on a mission!
And who's to say this isn't part of it? But enough about that. It's good to see you looking so...similar. I thought you'd have grown a bit taller after a whole year in another world, but apparently not!
Well, I am sorry to disappoint you. While my soul may be a year older, my body has hardly aged─as you are well aware.
And may I remind you that we Elezen are known to be late bloomers, especially in terms of our height. Mark my words, the day will come when even a great aurochs such as yourself will crane your neck to meet my eye!
Aye...'twas not until my twentieth summer that I myself outgrew my boyish proportions...though Moenbryda towered over me nonetheless.
Arenvald brings out the best in Alphinaud, doesn't he? They both seem so at ease in each other's company. It's almost endearing.
...So what exactly brings you here?
Oh, Fordola, mostly. We need to go over a few things before we set out.
Set out? Wait. Does this have something to do with the towers?
...Eh? What gave you that impression?
Actually, tell me later. You've got a meeting to go to. I'll see you afterwards, all right?
If Fordola is going with him, that must mean...
My apologies. As Arenvald rightly pointed out, we have a meeting to attend. Let us be about it.
Ere we begin, I would like to offer my gratitude to Masters Thancred and Urianger. 'Tis no small feat to infiltrate the imperial capital and live to tell the tale, much less in times of civil war. Thanks to them, we may plot our course in full knowledge of how the winds blow in Garlemald.
Full glad are we to have been of service. But verily, such dangers as we did encounter pale into insignificance next to those faced by our comrades. An Ascian armed with the might of Bahamut, bent on bringing about the Final Days...
Theatrics. He sought only to make a show of the power at the Telophoroi's disposal.
But since then, we have seen no sign of this “Fandaniel,” or his wyrm. And while we've done what we can to bolster our defenses, there's no telling where he might strike next.
Whenever and wherever it may be, we must use the intervening time to learn more of our enemy.
'Twas with this in mind that we dispatched scouts to investigate the towers...
Our advance party took longer than expected to return...and when they did, they tried to kill us.
Luckily, I'd seen that sort of thing before, and we were able to restrain them before they did any harm. Then it was just a matter of letting the porxies do their work.
Are you saying they were tempered?
Once they'd come back to their senses, they told us everything they could. It seems that just as they were getting close to the tower, they heard an earsplitting roar. And that was the last thing they remembered.
But what worries me most is what they were saying right before they attacked.
“Glory be to Garlemald.”
The tempered have heretofore ever been thralls to primal entities. Yet these hapless souls were compelled to accept a nation as the object of their devotion. This calleth into question all that we know of the condition.
Would that the unsettling news ended there. Alas, there is more. Following the earlier reports of missing Amalj'aa, we have learned that other beast tribes have suffered similar losses.
And we now have reason to believe that the abductions are connected to the appearance of the towers.
Our scouts sighted black-garbed figures leading shackled Ixal in the direction of the tower in Dravania.
The Temple Knights were able to intercept them before they could reach their destination, liberating the Ixal and apprehending their captors─each of whom was found to be equipped with Garlean arms and armor.
So the Empire is the common thread.
With the support of Zenos, it seems likely that Fandaniel has rallied a faction of the splintered Garlean army to the banner of the Telophoroi.
Lord Hien reached the same conclusion when I shared our findings with Doma.
The plan had been to march on Garlemald from the east and west in order to force a peace treaty, but the situation has changed. Dealing with the threat of the towers must come first.
Given the nature of the enemy, and the proven risk of tempering, I could think of few suitable candidates to aid in this task. But I am confident in my choice.
What!?
Resistant to primal influence as they are, they can investigate the towers without fear of being turned.
We're glad to put our gifts to use, Commander.
Gifted or not, going behind enemy lines remains a perilous undertaking. But we must know more if we're to strike back at our foe. I'm counting on you.
If it would give us the upper hand, I'd do it a hundred times over. We won't let you down.
That concludes the briefing. You two─make ready and join your escort.
Are you certain about this, Arenvald?
I am. Come on, let's talk outside.
Now that it's out in the open, I don't have to keep it under my proverbial hat anymore.
So you know, I've already gone through all the formalities at the Rising Stones. Made sure to inform J'moldva and V'mah at Rhalgr's Reach as well.
Arenvald, I admire your enthusiasm...but this is far more dangerous than anything you have done before.
I know the risks. And I also know what's in store if we don't stop Fandaniel from carrying out his plan.
With this power of mine, I can make a difference. If I stood idly by, I would regret it for the rest of my life.
And you, Fordola? Is this what you want?
What're you asking me for? It's not like I have any say in the matter.
Don't pretend. We both know Commander Aldynn gave you a chance to refuse. And you didn't.
So the Empire's finished, is it? That's what they're all saying. That the great and glorious Garlemald slit its own throat.
And now, from out of its twitching carcass crawls the Telophoroi, with bloody Zenos at its head.
I fought for Garlemald. Killed for Garlemald. What was I a part of? I need to know. Whatever it is...I need to know.
Very well. If your hearts are set on this, I shall not stand in your way.
If you've finished with your touching display of camaraderie, I have a question: which tower are you planning to investigate, exactly?
Well, the one in Gyr Abania's said to be tightly guarded. It's patrol after patrol out there, apparently. We'd be spotted before we got anywhere near it.
Which is why we've set our sights on the one in Paglth'an, instead. There shouldn't be anything like as many imperials to worry about down there.
Even so, I doubt the local Amalj'aa will look kindly on it if they catch you sneaking around in their territory.
Fordola and I had a chance to learn the lie of the land in our previous forays there. We might still find trouble, but at least we won't lose our way.
Well, we'd best not keep them waiting any longer.
Mayhap when all of this is over, we could take another trip to Loch Seld. I would have you know I've become a rather capable swimmer since our last visit.
Ha! I'll believe that when I see it! Though, to be fair, getting into deep water does seem to be a Scion's lot in life... Take care, eh?
It means a lot, you know─you coming with me.
I still owe you for saving my skin, don't I? Can't return the favor if I'm not there.
I daresay you'll get your chance before long. That Fandaniel sounds like a tricky customer. Too much for the likes of me, anyway.
But we both know I'd be just another soldier if it weren't for my gift. And I need to be a damn sight more than that, given what's coming.
I realize I can't hold a candle to a hero like the Warrior of Light─or Alphinaud, for that matter. He might look like he's twelve, but he's seen more action than most people see in a lifetime.
No, the fact is, I'm nothing like them, and maybe I never will be, but I'll be damned if I don't try.
They're counting on me. On us. So let's give it our all.
He does not want for conviction, that much is certain. So let us have faith in him. Him and Fordola both.
While they see to the towers, I would attend to another task: chasing down this “Lunar” Bahamut.
(Ugh! Bloody thing...) Can you hear me? It's Tataru. I'm happy to say we managed to find Estinien!
And...I'm sorry to say he went running off again the moment we told him about Bahamut.
But he did mutter something about heading to Ishgard, so if you're quick, you might still be able to catch him!
Even if we set out this instant, he may already have left by the time we arrive. Have her send the Bonanza to Ishgard. It may prove useful should we need to give chase.
Gladly! I'll see to it as soon as Krile and I get back to the Rising Stones. Good luck!
While you go off on your dragoon hunt, Urianger and I will return to headquarters. We have much to tell the others.
I wish you every success in your search for our elusive friend. May we all meet again ere long.
So Estinien was bound for Ishgard...
Whatever it is that brings him home, we must hope it will keep him there long enough for us to find him. Come, there is no time to lose.
All present? Good. Let us split up and search for Estinien.
Since we're relatively new to this place, G'raha and I will look around the open spaces─the squares and markets and whatnot. You and Forename can delve into the nooks and crannies.
Very well. Let us reconvene at the airship landing later, with or without Estinien. Good luck.
I think I shall begin at the Skysteel Manufactory, so perhaps you could try the Congregation? Lucia may well have heard news of our friend's return.
Good evening to you, Warrior of Light. Lord Aymeric sent word that you would be attending the meeting in Ala Mhigo, so I gather you have not come in search of him. To what then do we owe the pleasure of your visit?
I see. No. We were not aware Ser Estinien had returned to Ishgard, but as I expect you remember, he is wont to come and go as he pleases.
Mayhap he came seeking an audience with Lord Aymeric, only to find him absent?
In any event, I am afraid I cannot help you. Perhaps one of your companions has fared better.
No sign of him. Not that I've ever met him before. But the way Alphinaud goes on about him, I'm fairly sure I could pick him out in a crowd.
Speaking of which, it does seem awfully quiet. If the erstwhile Azure Dragoon had returned to Ishgard, would it not be a source of general excitement?
First the Scions' coinkeeper, and now you. I'm beginning to think these meetings are more than mere coincidence.
Not that I'm complaining. It's been too long.
“Too long”?
You look an ilm taller and twice as rugged. It suits you, Alphinaud.
Quieter, though. Have you been giving him lessons on how to be the strong, silent type?
I...
...am not...
ALPHINAUD!
If the two of you are such firm friends, perhaps you should remember what he looks like! And what do you mean, “rugged”!?
Ungh! Had my brother mentioned what an oaf you are, I'd never have bothered looking for you in the first place!
Estinien Wyrmblood, the Azure Dragoon... He who fought and felled the dread wyrm Nidhogg at the Warrior of Light's side!
To think the day would come when I should see this living legend with my own eyes!
Would someone mind explaining what is going on?
Is everything all right!? I thought I heard Alisaie shouting...
Estinien! It's been too long!
No, no, it's quite understandable. That was hardly the first time we've been confused for one another. Nor, I suspect, will it be the last.
Well I for one will not be making that mistake again.
What I will say...for the second time today...is that you've grown. Inside and out. I can tell.
One can't remain a spoiled little lordling forever, you know.
At least someone's having a good time...
You know, when we were growing up, Alphinaud would never befriend other boys because he couldn't stand the thought of not being in charge. But maybe that's changed. He seems just as happy around Estinien as he does Arenvald.
Hmph. Good luck to them. It hasn't been easy being his sister, I can tell you that.
I wouldn't be so sure. He still loves nothing better than the sound of his own voice.
Keep him to my—!? You're joking, aren't you? I'd be glad if someone would take him off my hands!
No rest for the righteous, eh? Speaking of which, I was just on my way to borrow an airship to take me to Azys Lla.
Azys Lla...? How could I forget? The dragon with whom Bahamut shared the deepest of bonds...
Aye, Tiamat, his mate. Even now, she remains imprisoned on Azys Lla, though her remorse binds her faster than any shackle.
I see... As the one who first summoned Bahamut, you believe she may be able to shine some light on his latest incarnation.
Might I suggest that we make the journey to Azys Lla together? I'm not sure if Tataru mentioned this, but we Scions have an airship of our own now.
I see no reason why not...assuming your sister can bear the thought of sharing a deck with me.
Be my guest. But confuse me with Alphinaud again, and I'll throw you overboard.
Ugh! I don't know who he thinks he is, but he's nothing like Alphinaud painted him to be!
I will admit, he is not exactly as I imagined him either. Based on what I had read of the man, I think I was expecting someone a little less...blunt?
It has been quite some time since last I set foot in Azys Lla, but I understand the three of you were here rather more recently. I don't suppose you chanced to meet with Tiamat during your visit?
Alas not. We had no cause to set foot here in the Delta Quadrant. But I have studied the relevant records─which is not to say I wouldn't appreciate a firsthand account of your dealings with her.
Well then, Forename is the person to ask. As far as I know, she's the only one of us to have met Tiamat face-to-face.
Ever since the end of the war with Meracydia, yes. <sigh>To have been held captive for so long...
Ah, yes! You were a friend of her father!
Some things are hard to put into words. I can only imagine what it must have been like to be the first mortal to speak with her after all that time...
I too have met with Tiamat.
After the Dragonsong War came to a close, I came here to speak with her─a wyrm who had fought her own war against man in another age.
I wished to know if she yet harbored thoughts of vengeance, and asked as much. She said no.
“My hatred for your kind was extinguished long ago.”
But the guilt she feels for resurrecting Bahamut burns on undimmed. It torments her, even now.
...I see. Then your original reason for coming here was out of concern that Tiamat had been forced to summon Bahamut.
Nidhogg is a part of me. I feel his emotions as my own. And I know that he would not allow his sister to be made a tool of evil.
In his absence, it falls to me to watch over her.
Tiamat awaits. This way.
My sire's mortal companion... What bringeth thee back to this forsaken place, child of man?
Hmph. It's plain she knows naught of recent events. Perhaps you should enlighten her.
Ahhh... That my sins should be repeated...
I sensed not the faintest stirring.
As to who could have called him forth...I know of none save the dragons of Meracydia. Our children...
The eikon claimed their souls when first he manifested. And robbed of their will, they became tools for the Allagans' dark designs.
Much like those held here in Azys Lla. If dragons who worship Bahamut are required to summon him, that must mean...
Yes. The dragons of Meracydia are at the mercy of this Ascian. There can be no other explanation.
Accursed Ascians! Vile minions of Darkness!
Again you would profane the memory of my beloved, and strip our children of their freedom, their dignity! Are there no depths to which you will not stoop!?
Your children's pain means nothing to them. They laugh at your kind's suffering.
But tears will not right this wrong. Nor will lamentations see the perpetrators punished.
What wouldst thou have from me, slayer of dragons?
Behavior befitting a great wyrm.
We came here to ask mighty Tiamat of the first brood, consort of Bahamut, mother of the dragons of Meracydia, what she intends to do about the crimes committed against her children!
Were I free, I would answer thine insolence with fire. But words shall have to suffice.
Recall, mortals, that it was I who did first summon my beloved, praying with all my being to bring him forth. You who contend with eikons cannot well be ignorant of the consequence.
...You too were exposed to his influence. That you are yet in possession of your own will is testament to the indomitable strength of your soul.
But were you to meet with Bahamut again, you fear you might succumb.
Indeed. Ask the dragonslayer, and he will tell thee the power we of the first brood wield. Were I to lose myself to the eikon's influence, all would pay the price.
But it is of little matter. For even had I the strength to resist, I yet lack the strength to break my shackles. This prison shall be my tomb.
On the matter of Bahamut's influence, at least, I believe we can be of some assistance.
If you're afraid of being enthralled, don't be─we have a cure. And while we've never tried it on one such as you, its basic principles are universal.
Speakest thou in earnest?
There is no future for those bound to the past.
That you committed a terrible sin, I do not dispute. But if you feel remorse, you may yet make amends. We offer you that chance. Take it, or you will forever remain a prisoner, not of these cruel shackles, but of your own guilt.
A chance to make amends... To lay Bahamut's memory to rest...
When our own star faced annihilation, Hydaelyn granted us sanctuary. And now your foes would bring about Her destruction. This I cannot allow. For the debt I owe to Hydaelyn, and to all who have suffered for my sins...I shall fight with you, children of man.
While porxies have been shown to be effective in curing the tempered, Tiamat must be considered a special case.
She is far, far larger─and immeasurably more powerful─than any subject treated thus far. Were we to remove her restraints only to find that the process had failed, we would be hard-pressed to contain her.
Then...before going ahead, we should learn as much as we can about the exact nature of her condition. Do you suppose we can find that information here?
Why, yes...we can! We can indeed! The Allagans kept detailed records on all of their notable captives, and I know exactly where to look.
We shall leave that to you, then. In the meantime, the rest of us can turn our thoughts to the removal of those shackles.
I know Alphinaud and Forename here well enough─but not you. Are you certain you're ready to see this through?
Rest assured, Ser Estinien, that I am both ready and willing to give my all for the sake of this star─though that is not my only reason for wanting to set Tiamat free.
While I do not claim to know all of her sorrows, I too once found myself in a prison of despair. And I well understand how hard it can be to dare to dream of escape.
It took the encouragement of braver souls than I am to make me take the first step towards a brighter future. And now I would help Tiamat do the same.
I gather you are not as young as you look.
Mayhap when our work here is done, we could trade tales over a pot of Tataru's famous tea?
And be indebted to her for the leaves and hot water? I think not.
...I see. Ahem! Returning swiftly to the task at hand, then...
I believe the nodes governing Tiamat's restraints are located in the sector known as the Flagship.
Ah yes. We are familiar with it. The Aetherochemical Research Facility in particular.
Oh, you may wish to take this. A spirit vessel, containing a small amount of my blood.
...Which you just happened to be carrying around with you.
I suppose that could seem rather odd. To explain, Rammbroes, Urianger, and I are researching the use of spirit vessels in the transference not only of memories, but the traits of certain bloodlines. And so I keep one at the ready should an opportunity to test our theories arise.
As for its use to you, you may recall that during our previous visit, the nodes here granted access to restricted functions, having identified me as being of royal blood. And armed with that spirit vessel, I posit that they will do the same for you, even in the absence of, well, the rest of me. It seemed worth a try, at least.
Agreed. We will take good care of it.
To the Flagship, then!
Let us split up and search the Flagship for the node that controls Tiamat's restraints.
But should you find a likely candidate, do not be tempted to make any adjustments; it would not do to accidentally release some manner of experimental monstrosity, nor less Tiamat herself in her current state. Our objective at this stage is simply to identify the relevant node or nodes. Once we have learned what we can, we should reconvene and compare notes prior to proceeding.
