Master Thancred remains in slumber. Though his vital signs appear stable, he is unresponsive.
What could have done this? And why just him and not the others?
I'm afraid we could not identify the cause, my lady. Our examinations revealed no wounds, nor the presence of any poisonous substances...
Gods, that only makes it worse. You're to let us know the moment there's any change, all right?
Thank you for coming. Knowing Thancred, he would apologize for being otherwise engaged at so crucial a juncture.
In gifting us a course of action, Thancred sowed the seed of all that is to follow. We have but to nurture it as best we can. To him I would say rest easy, that he may wake to enjoy the fruits of our labors.
Now, the matter of the mysterious voice must not be forgotten. Will you tell me exactly what happened?
Alisaie and I heard a voice in the moments before Thancred collapsed. It was accompanied by a severe headache─as if something were clutching at our minds. Did you experience the same thing?
...So, in between the voice and the pain, you felt as if you were somewhere else entirely?
Your testimony confirms my suspicion. That which you experienced was, I believe, your soul being plucked from your flesh. Called.
Called?
I myself examined Thancred.
Reach out as I may, I could not sense in him the spark of life that is his soul.
That Thancred alone was stricken so is likely due to his heightened sensitivity to the effects of aether─a consequence of his prior possession by the Ascian Lahabrea.
The owner of the voice, whoever it may be, reached out to you─called your souls─and in so doing caused you and yours such pain.
But...if that's true, where exactly are we being called to?
I know not. Yet one thing is plain: whoever waits for you on the other side is possessed of a power unlike any I have ever known.
Forgive us, Lyse, but may we leave Thancred in your care for a time?
As if you had to ask. I may not be a Scion anymore, but I'm no less a friend.
Don't worry, I'll see to it that Thancred's well looked after. Just focus on solving this mystery, all right?
Thank you, Lyse.
As the Elder Seedseer says, 'tis no ordinary individual we are dealing with. Nor can we discount the possibility of Ascian involvement.
Whoever or whatever is behind this, the sooner we find out the better.
I just tried to call Urianger on his linkpearl. He didn't respond, but I dare to hope that he possesses some knowledge we do not.
...Ah, Urianger! Something happened during the meeting. Thancred's collapsed. A disembodied voice suddenly started─
...What? But that's... We should talk about this in person....All right. We'll meet you there.
That was Urianger. He heard the voice too!
In Thanalan? Hm.
As we alone were afflicted at the meeting, I had my suspicions, but if the voice also spoke to Urianger, there can be little doubt: the Scions were targeted specifically.
By whom and to what end is the question. One to which we must find an answer with all possible haste.
Urianger agreed to meet us at the Rising Stones. If any of the others heard the voice, we'll find out soon enough.
Good luck. I should get back to the meeting with the Elder Seedseer, but if there's anything I can do─anything at all─you must let me know, all right? Promise me.
Right, let's be on our way.
Urianger! Gods it's good to see you!
Would that our meeting were under happier circumstances. I judged the voice sufficient cause for concern even before you sent word of its effect on our comrade...
You heard it too, then?
Aye. And all but certainly at the selfsame instant. Alas, pained as I was, I could make little sense of what few words did then reach mine ears.
Who do you think is responsible? Could this be the Ascians' doing?
That I cannot say. Not when so little is known.
Ere I indulge in speculation, I would examine Thancred with mine own eyes.
To Ala Mhigo, then─without further delay!
One other thing. During my visit to the Far East, I observed a strange phenomenon.
Thou referest, I presume, to the localized reduction in aetheric density?
Well, that spares me the trouble of an explanation. Yes. I noted precisely that at two apparently unconnected locations. I take it the phenomenon is not limited to the Far East?
Indeed not. Of late, our agents charged with surveilling the beast tribes have spoken of little else. In every corner of the realm, they tell of places in which the aether hath grown thin.
Naturally, my suspicions first turned to primal activity, but the areas thus affected betray no evidence of summoning. I must confess to being quite perplexed.
If the same phenomenon is being observed in multiple locations on opposite sides of the world, we may safely discount regional factors. Needless to say, this warrants further investigation.
Indeed. I shall make it my task to─
The voice... It calleth to me once more...
I...I hear it too!
Only you... Only you...
Ah! Unnngh! No...!
Y'shtola... Urianger...
Throw wide...the gates...
No! NO! This can't be happening!
Y'shtola! Urianger! Open your eyes!
Open your eyes, I beg you...
Say something...anything... Not again... Please! Not again!
Forgive me, that was an unseemly display...
It happened before your very eyes, my lady. None here would have behaved any differently.
We have borne the two of them to a private chamber. But tell me, is it true that Master Thancred languishes in a like state in Ala Mhigo?
I'm afraid so. Though, given the circumstances, it would seem best to observe them together. I will send word to Lyse that he should be brought here.
Take heart, my lady. The world is full of scholars and knowledgeable folk of every persuasion. Someone out there is bound to know what ails our comrades, and how it may be cured. Thus will we rouse them─no matter what.
That we will, Hoary. That we will.
But first things first─our comrades will have questions. May I ask that you explain the situation to them? I must attend to a private matter.
Oh, I promised I'd visit someone in Limsa Lominsa. He's been waiting at Maelstrom Command for a while now.
...You know, you should come along too. I think he'd be glad to see you.
As you've probably guessed, it's Ga Bu we've come to see. The private here will bring him out to us.
Ever since the Maelstrom took him in, I've tried to visit as often as I can. And after what befell our friends, I was taken by the urge to visit again. It's...difficult to explain.
Here he is, my lady.
Ga Bu...it's been too long.
...
I'm afraid there has been no change. If he can see or hear us, he has given no sign...
I see. You're still fighting.
I'm proud of you.
We promised that we would come and visit you together, didn't we. Alphinaud and I. I'm sorry that we haven't managed that yet.
You know, with the three of us like this, does it not remind you of that night? Of the stars beyond count, twinkling in the heavens?
I was feeling pretty low back then. Powerless. But I knew that my brother was close by if I needed him. And that the others would be waiting for me back at the Rising Stones.
Not like now.
I've seen my share of trouble since coming to Eorzea.
...Been reminded again and again of my limitations─of how little I can change about this world. And I've come to know the sorrow of parting all too well.
But to have the people I hold dear struck down before my eyes, and be powerless to help them...? That─ That I cannot bear.
And for that I am grateful. I don't know what I'd do without you.
...No. I don't. You're right. It's pure arrogance to imagine I can solve everything by myself. You'd think I'd have learned that by now. Thank you. I don't know what I'd do without you.
Well, that's more than enough brooding for one day.
Come on. We have friends to save.
Let's return to the Rising Stones and take it from there.
Thanks again for agreeing to come. It meant a lot to me.
I did some thinking on the way back, and I think Hoary is right: we need to seek outside help. Ordinarily, we would turn to our own experts on such matters, but they're both among the stricken...
I will begin by reaching out to the myriad guilds and research institutions here in Eorzea. Additionally, Grandfather and Minfilia had a wealth of connections between them, and I mean to explore those avenues too. We'll find a way to save everyone, mark my words.
Much and more has happened in recent days. Some of it for the good, some...not so. But all around me, people continue their fight.
From the shinobi who search for Alphinaud to the Alliance members who make ready to move against the Empire, they march on in the face of great adversity, bearing heavy burdens. Everyone is playing their part...and so must I.
You have your own part to play, I know, and it's bigger than most. So I won't keep you. Just promise that you'll visit from time to time, and I promise I'll have good tidings to share with you when you do.
You have your own part to play, I know, and it's bigger than most. So I won't keep you. Just promise that you'll visit from time to time, and I promise I'll have good tidings to share with you when you do.
The Populares no longer present an obstacle. Now is the time to bring the Empire's might to bear.
A word from Your Radiance is all it takes. But one word, and the imperial army will fall upon Ala Mhigo as a pack of bloodthirsty wolves and tear that feeble nation apart.
Have you no words for me?
Despite the lengths I go to─an emissary, playing the part of a fool.
When first I took this face, I swore to use all of my knowledge, all of my power, to further the cause of the Empire. My deeds stand testament to my commitment.
And with this adamant flesh at my disposal, I could destroy the eikon-slayer as easily as one might swat a fly. Why do you hesitate?
Our enemy is resourceful. Though victory is certain now, it will not remain so indefinitely. Deliberate if you must, but be quick about it. We will speak again when you have unburdened yourself of doubt. Until then, I take my leave...Father.
