I reckon that's the closest we're going to get to a compromise. And we will have people standing guard...
Aye, let them keep their swords.
Then we have an agreement. Lead the way to your meeting chamber.
Why do I have the feeling we've welcomed a viper into our midst...?
This Qalyana elder's intentions seem at odds with all we know of her tribe. What think you, Forename?
Aye, it is said that once a creature has fallen under the sway of a primal, there is no salvation. And I strongly doubt the Qalyana have suddenly broken free of Lakshmi's will.
You believe an understanding can be reached? ...'Tis not entirely unheard of, I suppose: those who followed Saint Shiva eventually sought reconciliation with Ishgard.
Whatever the truth, I would take no chances. The guard must be strengthened─ideally with people who know a thing or two about primals. Can we rely on the Scions?
I'll round up our comrades, and send them to the Ala Mhigan Quarter. You can go on ahead if you like, Forename.
My thanks. I will see you in the palace.
Forename! I've brought reinforcements.
Arenvald told me of the arrival of our unexpected guests, and I agreed that it would be prudent to call upon Y'shtola and Thancred as well.
One can never be too careful when dealing with the enthralled.
I am not familiar with the Qalyana tribe myself, but Alisaie's report suggested that they shunned contact with other races. Despised it, in fact. Even compared to other Ananta.
Indeed. This apparent reversal in attitude is most curious. No one expected a response to our invitation, much less an envoy, and I imagine Lyse was forced to make some rather hasty arrangements in order to accommodate them.
Speaking of which, how should we deploy ourselves?
If the meeting is to be held in the throne room, 'twould seem wise to have eyes both inside and outside the palace.
Y'shtola and I can stand guard without. That leaves the three of you to keep watch over proceedings in the throne room itself.
Understood. We should join General Aldynn inside, then.
Forename, do you know of the rear entrance to the palace? It's on the eastern edge of the city, at the top of the stairs. The guard there should have been instructed to let us pass.
You're with the Scions, miss? General Aldynn left orders that you were to be escorted inside. If you'll follow me...
Thank you all for coming.
I am Lyse Hext, and I speak for the Resistance.
Among you are village elders, refugee leaders; envoys from the Ananta and the Qiqirn.
You've come from every corner of Gyr Abania to help decide the future of Ala Mhigo. But before that, I want to ask you a question.
What was the first thing you noticed when you came in?
For me, it was that empty throne.
It has no one to sit on it now. No viceroy. No king.
Would any of you like to take their place?
Or should someone else sit there?
Then let's sit here, in a circle. As equals. And, I hope, as friends.
Expertly done. Lyse has removed monarchy as a choice early in the game, and positioned them to consider a joint government.
All things considered, I would say events have got off to a fine start...
...and that is Ala Gannha's stance on the matter.
Thank you, Raganfrid. Another vote in favor. Next, let's hear from Shanti of the Qalyana. Tell us, how do your people feel about the idea of a republic...?
The Ananta wish only that those who dwell within Gyr Abania devote themssselves to our faith...
You shall all worship Sri Lakshmi!
Lady of Bliss! Grace usss once more with your beauteousss visage!
This can't be happening... No crystals were allowed through the door!
We can worry about the how of it later! We need to evacuate these people right now, or the primal will make thralls of them all!
It's up to us!
Godsdammit! The guards were already turned!
Fools!
No you don't!
The Qalyana would see us all enthralled.
Then they're going to be sorely disappointed. We have the Warrior of Light and Arenvald to shield us.
Aye, but they can't well defend your guests and attack the primal, can they? We're stuck on the back foot.
Uh... All right. I think I have an idea. Keep these people safe, General! I'll be back as soon as I can!
Bah! Whatever she's about, she'd best make it quick!
Come, then! Who will be next to die on my steel!?
How do we fight her without leaving our allies wide open? We can't stay on the back foot forever...
...No, dammit, if I think like that we've already lost. I have the Warrior of Light at my side! W-We can do this!
Isn't that right, Forename!?
Leaders of Gyr Abania...Accept my love. Worship my light!
She means to enthrall everyone...We have to stop her!
They've done a fine job of blocking our retreat...
We must break through!Forget the primal and focus on the foe before you!
Why...? I offer you peace and ssserenity...Sssurrender yourselves to me...
And give up the freedom we've worked so hard to win?Not likely!
Do not your mortal bodies tire?Far better to dwell in dream.
We'll keep our eyes open, thanks very much!
I shall free you from your hate.
There are too many...We can't stop them all!
Damn it all... It's only a matter of time before we miss one...
Her!?
What of it? Do you want to kill this thing or not?
Why? Why do you deny my blessing!?You who defy me shall ressst in death!
