My apologies, Your Majesty! This man, he does no work. Instead he drinks his days away on True Vue.
He has only himself to blame if he has no credits for souls.
That's not true! I'm a fighter at the Arcadion─or rather, I was!
I haven't been allowed to fight because of the king's decree! It isn't my choice!
I see, you're a brave warrior of the arena.
I want to help you, I sincerely do, but I cannot give you preferential treatment.
Then open up the Arcadion again so I can fight!
I'm sorry, but that's not my decision to make. The king requires feral souls for war. He doesn't wish for them to be expended on amusements.
You're useless! A queen in naught but name!
Insolent wretch! How dare you take that tone with Her Majesty!
It's quite alright. Such things don't bother me, nor do I think ill of this man.
Hear me. Though I cannot grant you a soul, I mean it when I say I want you to live.
I love all of you equally. Dearly. You are as family to me, and it pains me to see you deny yourself hope.
I want you to find a happiness all your own, even if you must grow it from the smallest seed of joy. Out there, somewhere, is a reason for you to smile again.
We all need to vent our frustrations from time to time. I will always be willing to lend an ear.
Yes, ma'am... Of course...
Even without a spare soul, I suppose I'm fine as long as I stay in Solution Nine.
I apologize for my rudeness. Good day to you.
Keep your chin up, my friend! And when you feel better, I'm sure you'll find another way to apply your talents.
Ahaha... I'm sorry you had to see that. Let's keep moving, shall we?
Right─I believe we've visited all the main facilities. With that, I declare our tour concluded!
That man from before... Does that sort of thing happen often?
Somewhat. It's unavoidable. Hardships are a fact of life.
Our soul management system has sustained our realm for generations, but it isn't without flaws.
For one, people have become accustomed to having spare souls. Without them they feel vulnerable and anxious. Some claim it may also have contributed to a decline in births.
Just thinking out loud, but would it be possible to do away with the system?
No.
I know it isn't easy to change one's beliefs and way of life. The Mamool Ja had their reasons for their reliance on blessed siblings, much as you have yours for souls.
But if we defeated Zoraal Ja, you'd be able to make all the decisions, right?
Then we could work together to fix things. Restore your realm to where it belongs, and see where we can go from there.
Listen to me. There's something that I need to tell you...
What is it?
A-Actually, never mind. It's nothing of import.
Well, it was lovely showing you around.
Of course, of course.
Thanks so much for the tour. We've learned not only about your realm, but you as well.
For now, our priority is Zoraal Ja.
But once we've dealt with him, perhaps I can return the favor and show you Tuliyollal.
I'd like that very much!
It seems I've no choice but to continue down this path...
Forgive me, Vow Wuk Lamat, but I must disappoint you.
What was Sphene wanting to tell us, I wonder...
Well, it can wait for another time. We've been exploring for a while now and should probably go to Cahciua's meeting point.
That'll be back the way we came...I think?
Sphene genuinely cares for her people. I can respect her for that.
And thanks to her tour, I've come to better understand the lives of Alexandrians.
They don't feel so strange and distant anymore.
So, we're supposed to go to a place called True Vue, in the eastern sector. This conveyor ought to take us there.
You know, once you get used to it, they're actually kind of fun. Come on, Forename!
This is the right place, you think?
I don't see the others, though...
Well, rather than sitting and waiting, we might as well explore a bit more.
Huh? Forename, look over there!
A Mamool Ja child... What are they doing here?
You noticed too, right? The resemblance to Zoraal Ja.
The blue scales of a Boonewa with the features of a Hoobigo...
This can't be a coincidence.
At any rate, it wouldn't do to leave such a small child on their own.
Come on, let's go after them!
I think they ran this way...
So this is True Vue. I'm not sure what I'm looking at, but it does seem lively!
That building's just about the only one that isn't lit up. Not open for business at the moment, I guess?
Uwaaah!?
I-I didn't see you there...
Listen, we don't mean you any harm. We just want to talk.
It's a bit odd, don't you think? They run off when we approach, only to suddenly reappear...
Could it be they want to take us somewhere?
Is that the way of it? You want us to follow you?
So it is! Alright, then, lead the way!
Let's see where they take us.
