<blip> New user detected. Commencing biometric authentication...
<bloop> Authentication complete. User identified as: member of the royal family. Please state your name.
<bloop> Welcome, Forename Surname. You may operate the dragon restraint mechanisms when ready.
But─ But that's just confusing! Amusing as you may find my name, I must ask that you use Forename Surname. Please.
<bloop> User name changed. Welcome, Forename Surname. You may operate the dragon restraint mechanisms when ready.
...Very funny. But if that thing speaks my name, I shall see that it never speaks again. Use your own. Forename Surname, in case you've forgotten.
<bloop> User name changed. Welcome, Forename Surname. You may operate the dragon restraint mechanisms when ready.
<blip> <bloop> Error: Unable to disengage restraints of the specimen “Tiamat.” A system update is required.
...A “system update”? What do you suppose it is asking of us?
Well, that's more than I can say. Confounded bloody thing...
Now that I do understand. You can go first.
User agitation detected. Initiating guidance program...<bloop> In order to operate the restraint mechanism, I require access to the central control system. However, I am unable to establish a link to said system due to the obsolescence of my own software.
This issue can be resolved by applying a system update using the corresponding terminal located within the Flagship.
So can this thing release the restraints or not?
It can─but only once it has received the requisite “system update,” as far as I can tell.
...Until which time it'll float there spewing nonsense?
User dissatisfaction detected. Initiating placation protocols...<bloop> I am here to help! Rest assured that I will be on hand to guide you through every step of the system update process!
How...gratifying. But I daresay we will fare better with guidance than without it.
<bloop> Guiding user to terminal. This way, please.
Let's see... According to the terminal, the central control system is presently employing...“Software Version 56.135.” Dare I ask which version you are employing?
Why, Software Version 42.002, of course.<blip> <bloop> Warning: Errors detected in the data management system. Estimated time required for update: 5 years, 1 day.
That is...rather longer than we were hoping. Aren't there any other options? For instance, using this terminal to operate Tiamat's restraints instead?
<bloop> The proposed method is indeed an option. Please be warned, however, that the procedure may have changed as a result of the system update, and my instructions may no longer be accurate.
Well, I can't imagine it will have changed all that much. As long as we pay due attention to any discrepancies, I daresay we shall be able to muddle our way through.
Don't bother trying to explain. Just tell me if we've made any progress.
I would say so, yes. It does, however, require that I remain here to operate the terminal. I shall inform you via linkpearl once I am ready to release the shackles.
It might be best if you left the spirit vessel with me. I may yet have use for it. Rest assured, I will be certain to return it to G'raha Tia once this is over.
...Just a little more work and Tiamat will be free.
But before we go any further, there is something I would know.
When Tiamat and her kin fought against the Allagan Empire, both sides were but dancing to the tune of the Ascians.
And it was the same in Ishgard, where they stoked the fires of conflict between man and dragon from the shadows.
All that the Ascians touch turns to ash, and thus have you made it your mission to fight them.
But there have been times when you tried to reach out to them instead. To find common ground.
And so I must ask: what do you intend to do with Fandaniel? Will you try and reach out to him too?
But did he not tell you that he was beyond reason? If he wishes to die, I say we oblige him.
Hmph. I see little point in reasoning with the wretch. Or remembering him for that matter.
Hmph. I'd rather put my lance through his heart and be done with it.
But perhaps that's the difference between you and me. You see the good in people─even if it be but the faintest glimmer. I only hope you do not come to rue your benevolence.
You think us unwise for viewing the world thus?
Far from it. That has ever been your way, as I learned when we journeyed together with Iceheart.
Yet the fact remains that there are some who view compassion as a weakness to be exploited. And there may come a time when you extend the hand of friendship only to wish that you had dealt the killing blow.
So...save your mercy for those who deserve it.
...Well, we should be getting back to our task. If Alphinaud has things in hand here, I suggest we rejoin the others.
Estinien told me all is well, but nothing more. Honestly, it's like getting blood out of a stone with him. I take it from Alphinaud's absence that he's needed elsewhere?
Well, that all sounds rather frustrating, but you got there in the end. While you were off talking to nodes, G'raha and I were learning as much as we could about Tiamat's condition.
Our readings confirm that her aetherial balance leans strongly towards the umbral, as was the case with the kobolds. Therefore, all other things being equal, the treatment should work.
The difficulty lies in the sheer quantity of aether with which we must contend. Multiple applications of the treatment will inevitably be required if we are to reverse the effects of the tempering completely.
Meaning I'll need all the aether I can get. Thank you in advance.
Although this endeavor will ask much of us, we do have one reason to be optimistic.
Namely that Tiamat shows no signs of fanatical devotion, suggesting a milder case of tempering than that suffered by the kobolds.
Hmm... Tiamat saw Bahamut as an equal rather than a god. Might that have made a difference?
Now that you mention it, it very well might. She would not have believed it necessary to defer to his will.
But enough talk─it's time to put our theories to the proof. Tell Alphinaud to disengage the restraints' aetherial dampers!
I'm counting on you, Angelo!
Ahhh, such warmth... The frost that shroudeth my soul doth begin to thaw.But what are these? Visions of days long forgotten...of war with the men of Allag. Wherefore do such baleful memories return to me now?
Could it be that the process of restoring her soul to its pre-tempered state is awakening ancient memories? Or might the opposite be true? If so, by helping her to recall the past, we may be able to speed her recovery!
Forename─she trusts you. Speak to her! Ask her to tell you of times past!
Ah, Bahamut...my beloved... Would that the peace we found in Meracydia could have lasted for eternity. But alas, it was not to be... The Ascians saw to that. In all creation, I know of none more wicked. It was at their behest that the men of Allag first came unto Meracydia. Unto our home.
Wicked, bloodthirsty creatures... Not content with their own lands, they brought fire and death to Meracydia. Our home.
The tale began when Bahamut and I left our father's side. We took wing in search of a place to make our aery.
Beyond the southern ocean, we discovered a lush and fertile land. It would come to be known as Meracydia by the children of men, though many years were to pass before they crossed the seas.
Upon our arrival, we were welcomed by the peaceful people of the forest, kin to the trees. Surrounded by nature's bounty, Bahamut and I had found a place to raise our young.
Fascinating! This correlates with the writings of the Sharlayan scholar Rurusha.
She posits that man first settled on the southern continent towards the end of the Second Astral Era─correctly, it would appear. If only she were with us to hear the tale from Tiamat herself.
Again, Angelo!
When first the children of man arrived on our shores, no foot did they set in those places over which we held dominion, such was their fear of dragonkind. And as they kept their distance, so did we let them be.
Yet as the days went by, ship after ship appeared upon the horizon, bearing ever more of their brethren, who divided the vast land amongst themselves.
For a time, they knew peace and prosperity. But as their numbers grew, the smaller their share came to seem, and soon they began to covet the territory of their fellows. Ere long, man fought man, blood was answered with blood, and none could see an end to the strife. Until, one day, they came to us.
Recognizing our wisdom, they entreated us to intercede in their conflicts. Bahamut agreed, and with him presiding over the affairs of men, the land knew peace once more.
Alas, those golden days of harmony, too, were fated to end. For the men of Allag slew my beloved, and I, in my rage and sorrow, heeded the envenomed words of the Ascians... The rest, thou knowest only too well.
But your tale doesn't have to end there. When you are free, we'll rid the world of the Ascians together. And you and your beloved will have justice.
Fine sentiments─but you're almost spent. I'll keep watch from above. If the treatment fails...run.
Ugh... Thanks for the vote of confidence!I swear, when this is over...
Keep going, Alisaie! The magick is working!
<huff> While I knew this wasn't going to be easy...no patient could have prepared me for treating a great wyrm...
But we're close. I can feel it. And while I've only got a few more drops of aether left to give, with yours and G'raha's, this will work.
Then I believe I speak for both of us when I say that you may take as much as you require!
Careful, I might hold you to that...All right, here I go!
Ungh...! No... I'm almost there...!
This is it, Angelo!
Yes...I feel it! The eikon's grip groweth weak!
Did it work?
We won't know for certain until the shackles are removed.
Answer me this, children of man... Can my kindred be saved in like manner?
Many have been subjected to the Allagans' dark arts, their flesh irrevocably altered. For such tortured souls, I fear there can be no salvation.
My children...
Should you hearken unto my call, we shall fly together once more. But should you not...I shall grant you peace.
Better to die than live as a tool of evil. You too would wish this, I know...and I shall do as I must.
When that time comes, you won't be alone. We'll stand by you.
Thou hast my gratitude, little one.
Alphinaud's ready. It's time.
Do it, and let's hope the treatment worked as it should.
Bahamut...my beloved.
For vengeance...and atonement...I rise.
By the gods...
Urianger, your timing could not be better.
Understood, we're on our way.
It's Bahamut. He's been sighted over Paglth'an.
He flies for the largest Amalj'aa settlement in the region─at the head of a vast host, including dragons.
Did you hear all that, Alphinaud? You'd best rejoin your comrades. I'll make my own way.
Our enemy awaits. Shall we?
While I'm sure you're desperate to join Estinien and Tiamat in battle, 'twould be wiser to gather the full strength of the Scions first. The foe we face demands no less.
...I have already sent word to the others. We are to rendezvous in Ul'dah, at the Hall of Flames.
Let us collect Alphinaud, and be on our way.
Now, I know some of you could do with a rest, but I'm sorry to say the Telophoroi have other plans. Paglth'an is already under siege.
Happily, the Immortal Flames arrived just in time to join the defensive effort─with Marshal Tarupin at their head.
Well, now...! Given the failure of the peace negotiations, I was uncertain how the sultanate would respond. 'Tis good to hear that Ul'dah has not abandoned the Amalj'aa.
Abandon them? Did we not profess to be their friends?
Your Grace!
Marshal Tarupin had made provisions for such an exigency and was ready to depart at a moment's notice. All that was required was the agreement of the Syndicate─each of whom voted in favor of intervention.
Nor is Ul'dah alone in its resolve. The other Alliance nations have likewise dispatched their troops to Paglth'an.
Yet even with our combined strength, we shall be sorely tested. For we face not only the might of an imperial legion, but Lunar Bahamut and his draconic horde besides.
Tiamat's children...
Fight as we may, victory is by no means assured. But not all of the omens are grim. Our forces report that despite their proximity to Lunar Bahamut, none of the Amalj'aa show any signs of tempering.
Strange. What primal would turn down a chance to claim new thralls?
...Unless it is incapable of doing so? Primals are not wont to serve a master, Ascian or otherwise. It may well be that Lunar Bahamut differs in some fundamental manner from those we have previously encountered.
If that were true, anyone could fight him. And Forename and others like her wouldn't have to shoulder the burden alone.
Be that as it may, Lunar Bahamut remains an incalculably powerful foe whom our soldiers will struggle to best through mere force of arms. With the aid of the Scions, however, I believe they will fare rather better...assuming, that is, you are ready to take the field.
An airship awaits to bear you to the front. Pray set forth as soon as you are able.
I, meanwhile, shall continue to coordinate our forces. Till next we meet, may the Twelve bless and keep you.
It was kind of her to speak with us personally. You may be certain she has no shortage of other responsibilities.
Well, I for one am inclined to do as Her Grace requests. Lest we forget, Arenvald and Fordola are in Paglth'an on reconnaissance. The sooner we save the day, the better their chances.
Indeed. To the airship then!
