Excuse me, Alphinaud. My wife, she's come down with a high fever. Do you think you could take a look at her?
Of course. Give me a moment.
Zero, may I leave the rest here to you?
Fine by me.
Thank you again for your help.
Er...Zero, was it? I take it you're one of Alphinaud's comrades?
Comrade...? We've entered into a cooperative pact, if that's what you mean.
Pact? No, no, nothing so formal. What I mean is, you must know each other well. Be on good terms, enjoy each other's company─that sort of thing.
Then no, he's not my comrade. I have none. Nor will I ever, I think.
Oh...
Did I say something odd?
No, not at all. On the contrary, it makes sense.
When Alphinaud and the contingent first arrived, we rejected them out of hand.
Whatever they may have claimed, they were the enemy. Savages with their savage ways. To accept their help was to admit defeat.
But no matter how poorly we treated them, they didn't turn their backs on us. They stayed and listened.
That's just the kind of people they are. Makes sense they'd get along with someone like you, who tries to push others away.
Get along? I'm upholding my part of the bargain. There's nothing more to it than that.
If you say so...
Ah, I'd nearly forgotten why I came. Are you hungry?
We all get rations, and considering the work you're doing, you're as good as one of us.
I am running low on aether... Very well.
Azim Steppe-style dumplings. Buuz, they call them.
Never had a dumpling? It's like...a kind of bread stuffed with a filling─meat or vegetables usually─that you bake or steam.
We have our own recipes in Garlemald, too. My mother liked to make them. My brother and sister always fought over the jam-filled ones...
J-Just think of it as bread, all right?
I should warn you, though, they're spicy─helps them keep longer, I assume. Too much for the children to handle, though.
Interesting...
Interesting good or interesting...
I don't know much about taste. Not anymore. But I do feel a sensation in my mouth.
Is that a bad thing?
Not necessarily.
Heh, that's enough for me. I've heard it said that spices are more akin to fire than flavors. Perhaps that makes them easier to understand.
Oh, Jullus. Getting acquainted with Zero, are we?
Um...ah... I-I suppose I am...
No harm in that. Acquaint away!
Ah, everyone is here. Excellent. Thank you all for your hard work.
I've just finished up myself. Shall we go and find Estinien?
Alphinaud! Alisaie!
This seems urgent...
I've got a bad feeling about this.
He was out on patrol, so if he's come back early, then...
Well? Shouldn't you see what's wrong?
Forgive me the interruption, but I come with grave news!
A horde of voidsent are approaching from the mountains to the east. Their numbers are beyond anything we've ever seen!
What!? But Y'shtola and the others...
Anyone outside of Tertium is in danger. We must find and bring them all here at once!
Can we count on your aid, Zero?
I've already settled the debt for my question. I'm not obligated to help.
What's more, death in this world is absolute. You ask me to put my life on the line.
Without suitable payment, I will do no such thing.
That's fair... What do we have to offer that might be enough?
You're right, Zero. You're not obligated to help, and I wouldn't presume otherwise.
Nevertheless, we are in need. Assuming the buuz I gave you is worth anything, would you at least be willing to stand watch at this encampment?
That way, more of us will be able to go out and see the people to safety.
...Very well. Unless we come under attack, I'll do no more than stand watch.
I daresay Tertium will be safe enough with Zero here.
Let us go and find Y'shtola and the others, and assist with the evacuation.
Never have I seen so many voidsent... We've got to round up as many hands as we can to assist with the evacuation effort.
Do what you must. I will remain here.
Please hurry. Time is of the essence.
Come, we need to find our comrades.
Tertium will be fine. Jullus and his people have weathered far worse.
We must make haste to the snowcraft, where our friends and the engineer should be.
Given their position, they may soon find themselves at the mercy of the voidsent. If it comes to it, we must be prepared for battle.
I'm ready, don't you worry.
How about you, Forename?
Report!
Lost contact? When?
Voidsent─I'd bet my life on it. Understood. I'll investigate at once.
A unit transporting supplies has gone silent en route to Broken Glass. I will go and search for it. Stay here and keep watch, but be ready to answer my call.
If it was voidsent, you'd be a fool to go alone.
They'll find you before you find your men. And then they'll devour you as well.
Perhaps you're right. Perhaps I don't stand a chance. But I can't just abandon them!
I can't repay you for the bread if you're dead. I'll go.
What!? No! I couldn't possibly ask you to do that!
I'm far better suited to dealing with voidsent. It makes sense.
Or do you mean to say you'd rather I stay here because you can't protect this place on your own?
Fine. Just...don't do anything stupid. Promise me!
