Yes, I am Reyner. Ah, you must be the adventurer whose name seems to be on everyone's lips.
You are to be commended for your part in thwarting the plot to destroy the Victory. Now, what can I do for you this day?
You bear an urgent message from Baderon? Why do I get the feeling that my hopes for a quiet morning are about to be cruelly dashed? Tell me, what is afoot?
An assault on Swiftperch!? But we've seen nothing to suggest the Serpent Reavers are massing for an attack.
Even so, it would be foolish to discount the possibility─Baderon is rarely wrong about such matters.
I will marshal the Yellowjackets for battle immediately.
The only question is where to send them. While I concur with Baderon's assessment that the attack on the Drydocks was intended as a diversion, Swiftperch is but one of several possible targets for the main thrust.
Commodore, sir!
Report.
It's the Sahagin, sir! They've mounted a large-scale assault on South Tidegate, and threaten to overwhelm our defenses within the day. The garrison requests immediate reinforcements.
By the Navigator... It seems my decision has been made for me.
Muster the troops and give the order to march.
Aye, the Serpent Reavers are in league with the Sahagin.
...Which means there is every chance this assault on Tidegate may yet prove to be another feint. The fact remains, however, that we can ill afford to ignore it. And that leaves Swiftperch vulnerable to those pirate traitors.
It is at times such as these that I wish the Warriors of Light yet walked among us. But wishes will avail us naught. Surname, you must serve in their absence. Make for Swiftperch with all haste and lend your strength to the squads I can spare for the settlement's defense.
Commodore Reyner sent word we'd be getting reinforcements, but I didn't expect him to send you! You certainly look like you've seen your share of action, though─you bear little resemblance to the wide-eyed whelp I met fresh off the ferry.
In any case, do you know what you're fighting for here? This place─Swiftperch─it was rebuilt by folk who stood strong in the face of every hardship the Calamity threw their way.
And we're not about to let some fish-fancying scum claim the honor of being the ones who finally broke their spirits. Don't give those pirate bastards one bloody ilm, you hear me?
