Unnngh... Wh-Where am I...?
Rhesh! Thank the gods we found you!
And thank you, Warrior of Light!
Now, to quit this accursed place... Rhesh cannot move with those wounds. She will need to be carried out. I believe a diversion is in order. Might we trouble you to provide one? Given your reputation, I suspect the Garleans will be only too happy to grant you their undivided attention.
If you were to create a commotion within the castrum, we should be able to steal away unnoticed. Let us speak again once we are safely outside these walls.
I have awaited your return most anxiously, my friend. You have done us a great service indeed. Thanks to your aid, our comrade Rhesh is safe, and we suffered no further casualties. Words cannot well express my gratitude.
All that is left is to report the mission's success to Commander Leveilleur. I shall go on ahead to the Rising Stones.
Ah, it does me well to see you thus returned. Though I doubt not your prowess, entering an enemy stronghold is generally considered to be a risky venture, and I must confess to having been a trifle anxious.
But here you are, hale and whole, having succeeded in your mission as is your wont.
Lest you wonder, the woman you rescued is being cared for by the Domans. Thanks to their expert ministrations, the danger is past. You have my gratitude, Forename.
Allow me to thank you also, Scion. Rhesh owes you her life.
We escaped with minimal casualties this time, but we can ill afford to be caught off guard again. The Empire is not an opponent to be trifled with.
As you say, Commander. I will see to it that the men keep their wits about them.
And it may yet take time, but I will not rest until we have identified and apprehended the Ivy.
I have every confidence that you will succeed, Captain.
As for you, Forename─I realize you have scarce caught your breath, but I'm afraid there is no rest for the weary. I require that you accompany me to Coerthas.
I have been granted an audience with an Ishgardian dignitary, you see, and the man expressly requested your presence.
Oh, do not look so surprised. You should be familiar with the trappings of fame by now. We shall depart as soon as you are ready.
We have been blessed with a rare opportunity, Forename─an audience with an ambassador of the Holy See of Ishgard.
We are to treat with Ser Aymeric, lord commander of the Temple Knights, in Camp Dragonhead.
It is considered a great honor to serve the Holy See directly as a Temple Knight. Needless to say, their leader wields tremendous political influence. We would be wise to court his favor.
For that reason, I consider your attendance essential. If Ser Aymeric wishes to meet the woman behind the legend, I would not deny him the pleasure of your company.
The Antecedent should see the wisdom of this plan when you request her permission to accompany me to Coerthas.
...Mayhap you feel this to be a waste of your talents, which could doubtless be put to nobler use? If so, I should remind you that more good can be accomplished with the stroke of a pen than the thrust of a sword.
...A meeting with an Ishgardian ambassador? By all means, I think it a wonderful idea.
We have received no reports of aetheric disturbances or unusual beast tribe activity of late.
If Alphinaud believes your presence may help him to secure more favorable terms, I see no reason to deny him.
Antecedent. I take it Forename has explained the situation?
She has. Yet welcome though these overtures are, I cannot help but wonder what prompted them. The Ishgardians have spurned all contact with the other city-states for decades. Why reach out now?
Would that I knew... The question of their motives is one to which I have given no small amount of thought. Alas, I know no more than is generally known.
The notoriously reclusive nation of Ishgard, situated at the center of Abalathia's Spine...
...Ruled by the Ishgardian Orthodox Church, at the head of which presides the archbishop.
...Members of the original Eorzean Alliance, formed in the wake of Ala Mhigo's fall some two decades ago.
...Friends of convenience who withdrew from the Alliance as soon as the imperial fleet was routed at the Battle of Silvertear Skies.
...Since which time, their borders have remained closed to all outsiders.
They have rejected every one of their former allies' calls to reopen dialogue, turning a deaf ear to their neighbors' pleas even when the Calamity loomed large.
And on the fields of Carteneau, where brave men and women laid down their lives in defense of the realm, their banners were conspicuously absent...
I have tried to convince Ishgard to rejoin the Alliance at every opportunity.
I have explained over and over again that unless Eorzea stands united, we cannot hope to preserve our freedom. One by one, our nations will fall, as once fell Ala Mhigo...
...And what have mine efforts yielded? Why, naught.
Surely this can be considered a step in the right direction?
I should hope so. Rather than the lowly messengers we have been fobbed off with in the past, this time we shall meet with a man of genuine influence.
Of course, I am not so naive as to think that they come to us out of the goodness of their hearts. We have something they desire, though I have yet to find out what.
But such is the nature of diplomacy. They will bring their agendas to the negotiating table, and so will I─along with a handful of incontrovertible truths.
The Empire will soon be at our doorstep once more.
Indeed. You may be assured that I will expound upon this point and others.
Let us depart for Camp Dragonhead, Forename. Our old friend Lord Haurchefant is expecting us.
Since our quest to recover the Enterprise, I understand you have further ingratiated yourself with the man. Excellent work. His fondness may prove useful to our cause.
Ah, Forename! Ever a welcome sight!
Our hearths have been stoked to blazing in preparation for your arrival. It would not do for such a distinguished personage to catch cold whilst enjoying our hospitality.
The gesture is much appreciated. I fear I shall ever struggle in cold climes.
...Ah, good Master Alphinaud. An honor, as always.
Likewise, Lord Haurchefant. Forgive us yet another imposition─I fear we have relied overmuch on your aid since you so generously assisted us in locating the Enterprise.
Nonsense! Any debts incurred have long since been repaid. Besides, who can say what the future may bring?
House Fortemps may even seek the aid of your newly formed Crystal Braves.
In any case, I am simply delighted that the Holy See is at last willing to grant you an audience.
No doubt your discoveries at Snowcloak helped to justify the decision. This recent resurgence in heretical activity is of grave concern to us all.
But to the matter at hand: Ser Aymeric arrived in Camp Dragonhead earlier, and I am told he is eager to meet with you at your first convenience.
You are doubtless weary from your journey and desirous to rest awhile by the warmth of our hearth...
...But if you are willing to forgo such comforts, pray inform the knight stationed outside the intercessory. He will grant you entrance and send word to the other attendees.
As inviting as your hearth sounds, I think it best we proceed to the intercessory forthwith.
