May I ask your destination?
The north and east, I've already seen...
I suppose I'll head west this time.
“West,” you say...
“West,” you say...
I see you've made up your mind. I had a feeling you'd be keen.
But to think that our comrades, too, are thither bound... Fate doth work in mysterious ways.
Indeed. It will be a grueling task, having to contend with them.
If the prospect doth trouble thee, 'tis not too late to decline the petition.
...Though thine expression would suggest thou art far from perturbed.
Oh, how could I possibly be, knowing what's to come?
Then let us delay no further, and secure passage on a vessel.
Aye, this will be a mission to remember.
Come, my friend! We make for Tural!
Tell me, have you been to the ruins beneath the waters of the Bounty?
Or the treasure islands beyond the frozen waters of Blindfrost, in Othard's north?
The fabled golden cities of the New World?
The fabled golden cities of the New World?
The fabled golden cities of the New World?
I've no doubt there is much you wish to know about Tural, but there will be plenty of time to answer your questions on the journey there.
I will see to our supplies. All you need do is be patient─it will be time to depart before you know it.
A shame we have to leave to Tural so soon. I would've loved to visit Eorzea, or at the very least see more of Sharlayan.
What I have seen is pretty impressive, though. I wasn't expecting a city of scholars to carry such impressive arms in their shops.
Ah, it seems you've caught me in a rather precarious predicament. I've been pursuing new means of acquiring gil, you see. Thinking of potential endeavors we might undertake in future, it wouldn't do to find my coffers wanting at a critical juncture.
Hmmm... Perhaps I should consider the Loporrits' treasure vault that Urianger spoke of. In any case, so long as they do not interfere with my obligations to the Students of Baldesion, I intend to pursue all possible avenues.
Is it strange that, after traveling to the literal edge of existence, a simple journey across the ocean has me so excited?
In any case, after hearing of Krile's exploits on the Isle of Haam, it seems I have my work cut out for me if I'm to keep up.
Never did I imagine that I might travel to Tural, much less be involved in a contest to decide its new ruler. I shall do all in my power to see that Wuk Lamat succeeds.
And in so doing, I expect I will learn a great deal that will be of help to Jullus and his people. I can think of no better way to make the most of my time away from Garlemald.
Welcome back, Forename! I've just had word from Erenville.
It seems he's managed to secure passage to Tural aboard a guildship vessel.
Why don't you wait in the main hall while I go and inform your travel companions? It should only take a moment.
Your next grand adventure begins, eh?
Ojika gave us the good news. We've made ready to set sail at a moment's notice.
The only one yet to arrive is Erenville himself...
Ah, you're all here.
It took some persuasion, but the gleaners' guildship has granted us places aboard a vessel bound for Tural.
There'll be other passengers─researchers and artisans and the like─so we'll need to share deck space.
That's fine, Erenville. I doubt anyone expected we'd have a ship all to ourselves.
They're not casting off just yet, so if you have any lingering concerns, now is the time to voice them.
I wouldn't call it a concern, but everyone's still clear on what it is we'll be doing in Tural, yes?
We've not forgotten.
The nation of Tuliyollal is in the midst of deciding its next ruler.
As your chosen allies, we shall assist you during the rite of succession, and support your bid to become Dawnservant.
In addition to that, Alphinaud and I have another objective.
As part of its reconstruction, Garlemald seeks ways to reconcile and reengage with its neighbors.
By visiting Tural, we hope to learn more about how its myriad cultures interact with one another. How they find common ground, develop stronger ties─the sort of insights that might help our friends in Ilsabard.
But we'll pursue this goal in our own time. You can be assured that we'll give the contest all due attention.
That's all I ask. Otherwise, you're welcome to do as you like.
You wanted to find out about your grandfather, right, Krile?
Yes. As far as we could determine from the old missive I found, he had been tasked with investigating the golden city by your father, the Dawnservant.
Yet oddly enough, we have no record of that investigation in our archives, and nothing to explain the earring which accompanied the letter.
Thus for reasons both official and personal, I should very much like to get to the bottom of this mystery.
I'm sure there'll be a chance to speak with Papa. You can get your answers right from the source!
I look forward to meeting him.
In any case, you're not the only one with an interest in the city of gold.
The golden city is a children's bedtime story. I am part of this expedition only because the Third Promise has commanded that I serve as guide.
Still playing the part of the stoic servant, I see.
What of you? Don't you dare tell me you've changed your mind!
Well said! We won't get far wallowing in the shallows!
Hah! A woman of action!
Heh, that's what they tell me.
Right, then. If all are still committed to the journey, then I say we make ready to depart.
Eager as they are, the others have already left for the harbor.
We're not in danger of missing the boarding call, but perhaps we should be on our way as well.
Savoring the moment? I can feel your excitement...your eagerness to explore the unknown!
Well, for once the fate of the world doesn't rest on our shoulders. We might even get a chance to enjoy ourselves!
Do not be so quick to relax.
Though Tural may seem but a short sail away on a map, the vast seas between brim with peril. The treacherous waters of Shades' Triangle alone have claimed countless vessels.
Even following the “safe” route plotted by Admiral Bloefhiswyn herself, this will be no pleasure cruise.
Perhaps, but my voyage here was uneventful enough. Disappointingly so!
Either way, the two of you have firsthand experience!
Which will be of great comfort in the days ahead, I'm sure.
...Aye, it's nothing new to us!
