Are you sure that is wise, my lord? Your...curiosity is untested and unproven. We do not yet know its true capabilities.
Then trust in mine, Rhitahtyn. My curiosity, as you so eloquently put it, would have bested Titan in the blink of an eye.
Why, if there be truth to the legends, it could readily subjugate the whole of Eorzea given but a little while longer. Is that not so?
It is. No greater single power has ever been conceived, much less realized.
What you say may well be true. But while such devices may win battles, I do not believe they will serve to change the course of this war.
Oh but they will. Have a little faith, my friend.
...I cannot endorse this course of action.
...Fool.
And now she has a fourth. Fascinating.
Carry on, crystal bearer. Far though you have come, your work is far from done.
And naught remained to mark his passing...
Well, the Ascians are nothing if not elusive. It is of little wonder that they should cast advanced teleportation magicks at will.
But that they would choose to consort with the Empire...
What common goal could they possibly share...?
I feared I might arrive too late, but I see you had the matter well in hand.
I have taken measures to ensure that we are not pursued, yet I cannot say how long they will hold.
Take your leave while the kobolds are still in disarray. I will follow anon. There is something I must investigate before I depart.
I will teleport you to the aetheryte in Zelma's Run, and we will rendezvous at Camp Bronze Lake. Agreed?
I am relieved to see you well. But come, let us discuss our next step.
Though word will already have reached Maelstrom Command, protocol requires that a representative of our order inform the high commander of the mission's success. The honor is rightfully yours, Forename.
Once again, I must commend you on a job well done. We shall speak again soon.
It is good to see you, Captain Surname. Word of your triumph reached me some while ago, but I am pleased to have it personally confirmed.
First Ifrit and now Titan... Truly, when I think of your achievements, I feel the loss of the Warriors of Light less keenly─and there can be no greater compliment than that. You and your order are heroes. Suffice it to say, we are glad to have a Scion in our ranks.
I shall relay the details of your report to the Admiral forthwith. Please send my regards to the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.  Until next time, Captain.
Forename, this is Minfilia. Y'shtola has informed me of your success.
You have won a great victory for the people of Eorzea, one that shall not be forgotten.
And what is more, both you and Y'shtola emerged from O'Ghomoro unscathed. Why, Tataru and the others seemed as glad of that as they did of Titan's fall!
You can look forward to a hero's welcome!We'll be awaiting your return at the Waking Sands. There is much to discuss. Godsspeed.
This one is glad...walking one is safe...
We'll be awaiting your return at the Waking Sands. There is much to discuss. Godsspeed.
Thank heavens she is safe.
Louisoix, do you see? Your light shines brightly in this one. And in time, it will illuminate the realm once more.
<gasp>
Advance no further!
We have come for the one who slayed Ifrit and Titan!
Bring her forth! And you may yet know mercy!
<whimper>
Confound it.
Stay out of sight. I would leave a message with you.
I surrender myself, on the condition you spare the innocents.
Conditions? There speaks the supreme Scion.
I'll grant you have courage, but you would be better served by armor.
Search all you will, the one you seek is not here.
So it would seem.
And yet you knew to look here...but how? <gasp>
Hold that thought.
No!
Conditions of surrender...denied.
Have you not done enough!
Perhaps. Enough! We must away.
Though we have not found our quarry, the “High Priestess of the Scions” should suffice for now.
They say she also possesses the Echo. I cannot wait to hear her scream.
I said “enough!”
We leave! Bring the prisoners.
Walking...walking one Minfilia...asked this one to... <groan>
In case walking one r-returned...this one was to say...to say...
At church in eastern Thanalan...walking one must claim sanctuary...
This one tried...tried to protect walking one Minfilia f-from imperial ones...
For...give...this...one.
Save...
