Welcome to Rhon Ron's, traveler! I have wares to empty your purse and fill your belly!
Take your time! Stare and sniff before you choose! But no drooling on the merchandise, yes?
Hm? Silly customer, you cannot eat Rhon Ron. Not even for a Voeburt gold piece!
I call that “Mushloaf”! The middle is stuffed with bittersweet cactus fruits, so even if the bread dries out, it's still moist inside. Keeps you going in the heat!
That's my “Everburning Bounty,” made with the best parts of the lizard. Cured with special spicy spices! Some find the smell...challenging, but it'll warm you up on chilly desert nights!
Oh, you'll like those! “Chewy Skewers”! Find small frogs hiding under rocks, spear with stick, then roast over fire. Crackly on the outside, gooey on the inside─perfect for snacking!
Everyone's favorite! Plump white worms slathered in honey. Once you eat a “Glazed Wriggler,” you'll never want any other treat!
They all look tasty, yes? Which to choose, which to choose!
Ah, very wise! You won't wither on the sands with a gut full of cactus fruit filling!
You have the gold...?
...And done! One Voeburtite honor buys you forty loaves of bread!
Yes, put some spice in your step! You won't feel the cold this night...and probably not the next one either!
You have the gold...?
...And done! One Voeburtite honor buys you ten sides of lizard meat!
Mmm, chewy! A quick, easy meal to carry you across the desert!
You have the gold...?
...And done! One Voeburtite honor buys you sixty-five skewers!
Too good to resist, eh? (That's what I would've chosen!)
You have the gold...?
...And done! One Voeburtite honor buys you fifteen jars!
What an appetite! What a belly! A new legend is born in Mord Souq!
Our visitor invites us to feast! Let us give thanks for her great generosity—and small appetite!
Consider your coinpurse cracked! I am pleased to accept your custom, and Ghen Gen will be pleased that you honored ours!
...Keeping the merchandise down, yes? No returns!
I was watching from here, Forename! You honored our custom, and with great relish!
You will always be welcome in Mord Souq─if you need anything in Amh Araeng, we are here to provide!
Gahahaha! You have courage, my friend! Rhon Ron's wares are more “exotic” than harmful, but I don't envy you the bellyache you'll have on the morrow.
Right. Now that you've eaten, I expect you're eager to get back on the road...
...Would you mind if we delayed our departure a touch? I have a few deals left to close before I can conclude my business here in Mord Souq.
Oh! Offering your services, are you? Aye, well an assistant would certainly help hurry things along!
I have a receipt here for some goods that need picking up from the market. All properly paid for─you'd just need to do the lifting and carrying.
I'll go and take care of some last-minute haggling, then. See you in a bit.
