Greetin's, lass. Might you be the one the cap'n said would come callin'?
Aye, I thought so. Pay attention, now, 'cause I ain't explainin' meself twice.
Years ago, when we was weighin' up how to get to Titan, one of our scouts stumbled across this beastman aetheryte, see...
Eh? What's that look for? Not familiar with 'em?
He speaks of an unamplified aetheryte which has been claimed by a beast tribe. Lest you wonder, there is no fundamental difference between such aetherytes and those which you have used on countless occasions, Forename.
Ah, well if it ain't the Sharlayan lass. Welcome back.
Forgive me for interrupting. I had planned to await your report, but I succumbed to curiosity.
The tunnels beneath O'Ghomoro form a bewildering labyrinth that no outsider has ever fully explored. How the Company of Heroes managed to navigate it is a mystery I have long pondered.
Ha! Give us a bit of credit, love! We weren't daft enough to try goin' in the front.
The kobolds are always diggin' new tunnels an' fillin' the old ones with traps. One wrong step, an' the next thing you know, ye've got a hundred tonzes o' rock on your noggin. Suicide to even try, see?
Funny thing was, the kobolds didn't seem to have no trouble findin' their way 'round─an' it was that as got us thinkin'. I mean, U'Ghamaro Mines are like a bleedin' city, ain't they? An' gettin' around in a city that big would be a right pain in the arse if you didn't have an Aethernet, wouldn't it? So it stood to reason that the kobolds must have one, didn't it?
Hm. Even if there were aetheryte shards in the depths of O'Ghomoro, you would have needed to attune yourselves to them before you could identify their signatures within the Lifestream.
Ah, well, that's where yer wrong, love. We had this Sharlayan bloke to help us, see. Delivered us right into Titan's bedchamber, he did.
I don't rightly know how he did it, but I do remember him sayin' it weren't nothin' any Sharlayan scholar worth her salt couldn't manage.
...Did he now? Hmph.Locating a beacon in the absence of a known signature might be possible if the aetherytes in question happened to be... Ah, yes. But in order to guide a traveler to said beacon safely, a second party would be required to... Hmmm.
It is possible─in theory at least. Yet I cannot be certain until I try. Plainly, all will depend upon whether or not I am “worth my salt.”
Oh, you are, lass! Don't you worry about that! Have a bit o' faith in yerself!
Why don't we all go to Zelma's Run an' take a closer look at the aetheryte? It ain't far─though there's sure to be a few kobolds blockin' the way. Naught ye can't handle, mind!
So this is the aetheryte the Company of Heroes used to gain access to Titan's sanctuary.
Hm. It is as Papalymo speculated.
In its present state, this aetheryte's signal will not be strong enough for our purposes. I may, however, be able to use my own energies to amplify it. Alas, the task will monopolize my attention for the duration.
It seems you will have to proceed without me, Forename. I must needs remain here and supplement this beacon's power, lest you be denied your only path of escape.
Fear not: I will summon the Maelstrom forces stationed nearby to protect us.
With effort, it is possible that I may be able to stabilize the aetheryte's signal and thereby join you, albeit belatedly. Until such time as I do, you will be on your own.
Now...let us see if I am worth my salt.
I have located another beacon─one far below the mountain. I can only speculate as to what you will find there, so stint not in your preparation.
