Ardbert, the Warrior of Light!
The sword... If you took up the sword, you could be just like...
Branden, the Warrior of Light!
The bow... If you took up the bow, you could be just like...
Renda-Rae, the Warrior of Light!
I love that tale! Let's borrow the book today!
It's really popular, though. I hope it's still there...
Thanks for helping me decide, Warrior of Darkness! I'll start with that style, and maybe try something else later on.
And when I get really strong, I hope to have a bout with you!
Hmph... Such fun she's been having basking in the adoration of musty old bookworms and wide-eyed younglings, but does she spare a thought for me? Of course not!
I waited and waited and waited, but she won't so much as acknowledge the presence of her beautiful branch even though they're right here! Such a heartless thing our sapling is! Cold and cruel and heartless!
Why do you say it like a question!? Where's the love, the respect─the awe!?
...But disappointed as I am, I'll overlook it this once. I know you have a lot on your mind right now.
If you truly missed me, you should have cried for me at the top of your lungs the instant you arrived!
To make up for it, you will call with twice the passion next time. Though for there to be a next time, you've some few struggles to overcome.
I've no end of important tasks to attend to, but unlike some, I know what my priorities should be! And since when did my sapling become a twisted old tree that says such unkind things!?
...But disappointed as I am, I'll overlook it this once. I know you have a lot on your mind right now.
So, my adorable sapling. The world is on the verge of destruction, is it?
Hehe, how do I know this? Joined as we are, spying on you is as simple as sliding down the back of a rainbow.
Would that I could aid you in your quest...but the fate of we fae folk is bound to that of the star. Whither it goes, so too do we follow. Such is our way.
The most I could do for you is spare you the pain, by gifting you the sweetest of eternal dreams...
But if escape's not to your liking, then you must struggle with your fellow mortals.
Ah, but here are the ones you were waiting for. I wonder, what manner of conclusion awaits at tale's end...?
My apologies for the delay.
Forename! It's so wonderful to see you again!
You doubtless have much catching up to do, so I shall leave you to it. I've taken the liberty of unlocking the Umbilicus, and you may enter at your leisure.
I'm relieved to hear that everyone is well.
I've had this feeling, like a pit in my stomach, and I was afraid that something might have happened...
Maybe I'm overthinking things, but...it's just that...
I'm the Oracle of Light, but I've never spoken with Hydaelyn. Never once heard Her call.
Even so, I've always had this feeling deep inside me. A connection to something immense.
These past few days, though, that connection has...wavered. As if that immense something was distant, then close, then distant again...
And then, the other night, I was jolted awake by the feeling it had been completely severed.
Wanting some fresh air, I went to open the window...and to my horror, the sky was ablaze. Like during the starshower...
But then I blinked, and everything was normal. The next day, no one said a thing. No one else had seen what I had seen.
As far as I could tell, nothing was out of the ordinary. I began to wonder if it was a figment of a half-remembered dream...
Forename...? What are you not telling me?
I have to know─please! It doesn't matter how terrible it is!
It wasn't my imagination, then. The doom we witnessed in Amaurot has come again...
I can't believe it...
Like I told you before, all is well here in the First.
So don't worry about us. Please. Look only to the threat before you.
We're fine right now, and even if we weren't, we've learned how to survive.
Should the Final Days reach us here as well, you may be assured we won't go quietly.
No, we'll hold on until you can find a way to save all our worlds.
So long as you continue your fight, so too will we, united in purpose beneath a blazing sky.
You're headed to the Umbilicus to consult with Elidibus, right?
I'll do some consulting of my own and speak with Lyna. Decide how we might best prepare for the Final Days.
So it's farewell for now, but we'll see each other again. I'm certain of it.
We lived through the Flood and the tyranny of the Lightwardens. We're survivors. Do what you need to do, and know that we will too.
Ah, Mistress Forename, welcome back!
The captain has told me all. Give the word, and I will show you to the Ocular.
