Oh, what adorable costumes. Are you children on an excursion? This district has much to teach you.
How odd... That sounded like no language I've ever heard, and yet I understood every word...
Just as he understood us.
Ahem. And which district is this, exactly?
You must be lost, poor things.
You stand in the Polyleritae District, wherein lie the institutions most vital to the management of our star.
Ah, I see. You've come to marvel at the workings of the Convocation of Fourteen.
Who rules...? What a curious question. Mayhap you refer to our supervising body, the Convocation of Fourteen?
So Emet-Selch isn't the leader here...
Emet-Selch is a member of the Convocation. Were you hoping to witness its deeds firsthand?
Hm hm hm... Hardly surprising, I suppose. The whole world holds its breath as the Final Days draw near, and our brightest minds race to implement their plans.
...Thus you must understand that gaining an audience at this time will be next to impossible.
You should hurry home now, before your families begin to worry. Do you need me to walk you back?
N-No thank you. We will be fine.
Very well. Take care, little ones...
What was that all about...?
To my eyes, these people appear as arcane entities. I suspect Emet-Selch wove them from aether, much as he reconstructed the rest of the city...
The Final Days...
Such words well befit the oblivion described to us by our Ascian foe.
A catastrophe of unprecedented scale, which did set in motion the summoning of Zodiark...and thence Hydaelyn Herself.
But...that happened centuries and centuries ago, didn't it?
That man spoke as if they were rushing to avert a disaster here and now.
Unless... For these people, the distant past is the here and now!
I believe thou hast the right of it, Master Alphinaud. This aetherial Amaurot and its residents appear to be phantoms of a different age.
Emet-Selch hath resurrected a memory─a moment in time from before the star was sundered.
So, we find ourselves in a long-destroyed city inhabited by the long-departed. An unusual situation, to be sure─but at least we're able to parley with these ancients.
...In fact, they seem downright eager to chat. I say we use this to our advantage─split up, strike up some conversations, and see if we can't learn the location of our quarry.
And while we're at it, it wouldn't hurt to wheedle out a few more details regarding this Convocation of Fourteen and their impending disaster.
To mingling, then. Let's meet back here when our jaws start aching.
