Hm? What are you doing fiddling with that thing?
I asked you a question, soldier!
What are you─ Have you lost your mind!?
Aaah!
...I have lost many things, but my mind is yet my own.
There upon the stage I stood, prepared to take my final bow, only to find that the finale was but an intermission...
Shall I use this chance to repent for my sins? Embrace goodness and mediocrity? Nay, I think not. While the one I yearn to face yet lives, the hunt must go on.
It's been an eventful few days, hasn't it. But I suppose all we can do now is wait for word from Alphinaud.
Hmph. I don't recall the last time I had nothing pressing to be getting on with... We should probably make the most of it. Shall I put on some tea?
Tea would be lovely. You may regale me with the tale of your adventures in the Far East─and of your encounter with this new primal especially.
I'll put the kettle on, then. That table looks free if you'd like to take a seat.
...Interesting. So this Tsukuyomi was summoned in much the same manner as Susano─via the medium of a sacred relic.
That's right. They believe their gods─or kami─reside in physical objects.
Given the danger they represent, it may behoove us to begin a catalog of such relics. But if we are to contain the threat, we will require a better understanding of the summoning method itself. I believe I shall pay a visit to Doma, and learn what I can on the subject.
A fine idea. And I know for a fact that our friends in Doma would be grateful for any information which could help to prevent further summoning in the region.
I will pen you a letter of introduction─Lord Hien will wish to welcome our resident expert on aetherology.
Greetings! Could it be that I'm in time for tea?
It certainly looks that way. Come on─sit down and tell us how your investigations went.
After you left, I went about questioning Bloodhowe's gravekeepers. They all told much the same story: once Lyse and her officers had confirmed Zenos dead, his corpse was interred under strict supervision.
There seems little reason to doubt their testimony on that point, but when I mentioned the defacement of Zenos's grave, accounts grew rather more vague.
None reported having seen any suspicious persons in the vicinity, and all assumed the act to have been perpetrated by a vengeful Ala Mhigan. Crucially, however, I was able to confirm that when the offending scrawl was removed, as per Lyse's instruction, no one involved thought to check the contents of the coffin. By that stage, 'tis like that the corpse was already missing.
Assuming Zenos has not, in fact, risen from the dead, we are left with two possibilities: either the body was disposed of to lend credence to the claims of an extremely committed impostor, or an Ascian has taken up residence within it.
If Asahi was as fervent a devotee as you believe, he would not have been fooled by an impersonation, however committed. We must assume that we are dealing with an Ascian, and proceed accordingly.
Agreed. The question is, how many more such monsters are waiting for Alphinaud in Garlemald?
Their presence was his chief reason for going. He understood the risks. I only hope he did not underestimate the extent of the infestation...
Their presence was his chief reason for going. He understood the risks. I only hope he did not underestimate the extent of the infestation...
Master Alphinaud, we are making good speed towards our destination. Is aught amiss?
Nay, 'tis just...I can see naught from my cabin, and was curious to know the land over which we flew.
Ah. I am afraid our military craft are built with little thought for such niceties. I am happy to indulge your curiosity, however. We are presently passing over the Burn on the western edge of Othard. Even with the benefit of a porthole, your gaze would have been greeted with naught but malms upon malms of lifeless earth.
I have read something of the Burn. It was described as a desolate wasteland, bled dry of every last drop of aether...
Aye. It is believed that a succession of eikon summonings was responsible.
When Emperor Solus first came to Othard and beheld this blight, he is said to have reeled at the scale of the devastation. He declared eikons a threat to our very star's existence, and issued an Empire-wide decree ordering the eradication of all such entities.
Hngh! Report!
