That was amazing, Otis! And you too, missmister!
Hahaha! Fiends such as these are naught to be feared.
Well then... Dealt with it already, have you?
Be at ease, one and all. So long as I, Ser Otis, live and breathe, no citizen shall come to harm!
Otis!?
Of all the people─could you really be that Otis?
I'm certain I do not know what you mean by that Otis. I am who I am─and I should very much like to know who you are.
You're Ser Otis Velona, lord captain of the royal knights of Alexandria, yes? We met you while searching for Gulool Ja.
You cooked a most delicious repast for us. Fought beside us in Solution Nine.
Gulool Ja...? Solution Nine...? I've never heard of such things.
These events of which you speak are utterly unknown to me. As are you─I'm quite confident I would recall if we had met before!
Could this be... <gasp> Villainy!? You seek to bewilder me for purposes most foul!
No, no! No villainy intended, I swear!
(Tell me I'm not mad. This is definitely the Otis we know...right?)
I say, what are you whispering about there!?
Wait─I've no time for this! I must attend to my preparations for the Founding Celebration.
The children begged and begged that I perform in the marquee play, and I cannot possibly disappoint them!
I take my leave of you. Good day!
Founding Celebration...?
Gods, what a surprise to meet Otis.
He might not be the exact same as the one we met in Heritage Found, but still...
Thinking back, he mentioned that he was a test subject for soul preservation. That might explain why he's here in this way.
In any case, I'd love to talk to him some more. There are some things I need to tell him.
Right, let's go after Otis. He's bound to know about the past─about the Alexandria of old as well as Sphene when she was a living person.
The problem is he doesn't seem to be in the mood to talk... Perhaps we can offer to help him with this Founding Celebration─that might warm him to us.
He set off this way. Come on!
“Are you harmed”...or “Are you unharmed”? Hmmm, the latter, methinks...
To which Her Highness replies with her winsome smile...
“I am thanks to you, my dearest Otis!”
Y-You again!?
'Tis fine, I shouldn't have trouble with the lines come the performance. After all, the script is my very own work!
I appreciate the offer, but there is no need. The script is my own work, you see. and I know Princess Sphene's lines even better than mine own!
'Tis fine, I shouldn't have trouble with the lines come the performance. After all, the script is my very own work!
There is, however, a scene with which I struggle...
Hey, this looks like fun! Can I join in?
Hmph, you as well? I thought I said that I was busy!
You did, but we thought that maybe we could help. You're getting ready for the Founding Celebration, yes?
I am... And if truth be told, we are in dire need of assistance.
For this edition of the celebration, there is to be a play about the history of our realm for the children's enjoyment.
But with fewer of us being given form, we haven't enough hands to carry out the production. Thus have I been tasked with not only writing the script, but performing as myself besides.
Calm down, it's alright. We really are happy to help any way we can. Just tell us what to do.
For the same reason the production is shorthanded, it has become difficult to gather a crowd. I'd be obliged if you could spread the word of the play to the children in Yesterland.
Consider it done! We'll take ourselves around and talk to younglings.
Splendid! Oh, and to better appeal to them, we have adorable animal costumes for you to wear─together with your cheeriest bearing, of course!
A-Alright. Anything to make the children happy!
Let's see... Ah, yes, this one should be suitable for you.
Ohhh, it's a glamour! I was confused for a moment when you handed me the device!
I have something in mind for you as well. Let me know when you are ready, and I shall activate it for you.
What's yours going to be, I wonder...
Ready, are you? Then let us have you don your costume at once.
Marvelous! There's not a child that would fail to be delighted!
Hehe, it really does suit you!
Now that you are suitably attired, I pray you go forth and promote our play to the children. Concentrate your efforts here, in the vicinity of the air cab station, and see that you make it fun!
In the meantime, I shall continue my own preparations here. Should your costumes wear off, I shall provide you with another.
Your costume is about to wear off, you say? Very well, I shall give you another.
Ah, I see your costume has worn off. Here, I shall give you another.
That's right, Ser Otis will be in the play as himself! You can't miss it!
