A peace offering for the sylphs? Were it anyone else, I'd recommend a jar of honey, but I fear that wouldn't get you past their front doorstep, dear. No, their tastes run more to the unusual.
Are you, perchance, familiar with milkroot? That's what we call the root of that most fiendish seedkin, the ochu. When chewed, it exudes a cloudy liquid that's said to induce curious visions in the imbiber. You'd not catch me dead trying the stuff, but the sylphs seem to enjoy it to no end.
I've not seen an ochu around the Comb in quite some time, but I did encounter a suspicious clump of grass the other day. Were you to stimulate it somehow─with some of this amber syrup, for example─you might be surprised at what comes out. Good luck.
Ah, you're back. Was my wife able to direct you to a suitable offering?
Milkroot! But of course! Those sylphs quaff that cloudy stuff as quick as I do a flagon of mead. The effect's just about the same, as well.
Anyroad, a gift of milkroot will have the sylphs calling you friend and sister the moment they lay eyes on it. Now let me wrap that up for you─I'm startin' to feel a bit woozy...
I've taken the liberty of wrapping your milkroot well and good. This should keep it nice and fresh, not to mention spare you from that gods-awful stench.
The sylphs love the stuff, but me, I'd rather bury my nose in chocobo dung. I daresay the reek even rivals the breath of the morbol that put an end to my adventuring days!
But I can tell you that story another time. You've more important matters to attend to today, yes? The sylphs are an eccentric bunch, but I've shared their company enough to know they're kind at heart. They'll not shun one whose intentions are true.
May your parley be a fruitful one, friend. And do stop by on your return─there's a flagon of Fullflower mead with your name on it if you'd regale me with your adventuring tales.
Ah, and afore I forget, don't go traipsing off just yet. Amelain here would have a word with you. Travel in safety, friend, and do pass along my regards to the winged ones.
It's good to see your knowledge of sylphic culture has matured. I see no reason to delay your mission any further.
Upon your arrival at Little Solace, seek out a young sylph by the name of Komuxio. He has served as an intermediary between our peoples on many an occasion, and has the close ear of his tribe's elder.
I see that Hawthorne has furnished you with some of that malodorous root the sylphs so adore. I have something of far greater import for you to deliver─a missive from the Elder Seedseer herself.
To summarize the letter's contents in brief, it vouches for the integrity of our envoy─that would be you─and restates Gridania's desire to maintain a harmonious relationship with our long-standing friends of the forest.
The war with the Ixal has taken a toll on our resources; we can ill afford to get mired in another conflict. I need not impress upon you any further the importance of this mission. May the Twelve see you return with good tidings.
