The Forum is in session, and as such, the Rostra is closed to visitors.
A Scion of the Seventh Dawn? Very well, you may wait in the corridor.
Of course, entry will only be permitted on the condition you leave your armaments at the door. Lest you forget, this sacred institution holds rational discourse in the highest; the implements of war are expressly forbidden.
I suggest you make your way inside. The Forum takes a rather dim view of lateness.
There is a matter I wish to raise with you before we enter.
We are here to listen and to learn─but if the Forum's plans are more or less what I expect, then I should like to make a proposal that will serve our ends...
By your leave, of course.
I don't see why not. Your words and wits have gotten us this far.
Agreed. I will present our queries so that you may consider the most advantageous way to advance your proposal without distraction.
Thank you, everyone.
If I may have your attention─the ad hoc session will now commence.
The purpose of today's assembly is to brief the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, at their request, on the great exodus.
You may enter.
On behalf of the Forum, I commend your heroic actions on the Magna Glacies. We shall not soon forget your service to us and the people of Radz-at-Han.
The satrap, whom we have informed of the refugees' new arrangements, sings your praises as well.
As an expression of our gratitude, we will endeavor to answer your questions as fully and openly as we are able.
Then let us begin.
First─it is the Forum's objective to ferry the life and knowledge of this star to the moon. Am I correct?
You are. It is for this purpose that Sharlayan has labored these many long years.
We have collected biological samples and scientific records from across the star. When the time comes, they will be moved from their places in Labyrinthos and Noumenon and conveyed to safety.
Once that critical task has been accomplished, we will begin transporting the Sharlayan citizenry, which has been categorized into groups. The earliest arrivals are to ensure hospitable environs for those who come after.
Following our people, we will send those of other nations in turn, beginning with our allies.
Radz-at-Han was foremost among these, but since the Final Days have already come to Thavnair, we saw fit to include the refugees with earlier groupings.
An ambitious plan. You have accounted for the safety of all nations and tribes, then?
...As many as we can.
And how, pray tell, do you decide who to leave behind?
To journey beyond the sky is an unprecedented and immeasurably difficult endeavor. Introducing sources of inevitable conflict would condemn all to certain death.
Questions as to the validity of that approach aside...
Are your plans proceeding apace? We're under the impression that your primary means of celestial transportation is incomplete.
If only in that it does not meet our optimal parameters, that is correct.
This ark, as some have taken to calling it, is fully operational and could be launched even today.
However, the Final Days have progressed more quickly than we anticipated.
At present, the ship is incapable of attaining speeds sufficient to meet our evacuation targets.
Should we put the vessel into service as it is now, we will be unable to travel to the moon and back quickly enough to complete the necessary number of trips. Precious lives and knowledge will be lost.
Seven hells... Is there anything to be done?
The aetherburner─the primary means of propulsion once the craft is in the space between stars─is undergoing testing to determine whether it can be made more efficient.
Though cargo is being loaded for the initial phase of the exodus, we are prepared to continue our experimentation up to the day before launch should it prove necessary.
What if the Scions were to solve your problem?
We shall help devise a means to improve the aetherburner's efficiency─on two conditions.
If we succeed, you must allow us to meet with Hydaelyn.
'Twas simple enough to deduce. You have a concord, and so you would never have abandoned the Antitower had you no other means of communication.
One far more convenient, I suspect.
The second condition, also to be met upon our success, is that we be permitted to propose another use for your ark.
We would be at liberty to refuse this proposal?
Of course. If we cannot prove its merit to the ninety-nine here, who are we to stake on it the lives of all peoples of this star?
Hahaha! Delightful as always, Master Alphinaud!
We couldn't have asked for a finer plan. “Allow us to solve this complex engineering problem of which we were entirely unaware until moments ago. What could possibly go wrong?” Haha! The satire writes itself!
Yet what field has not benefited from a change in perspective? When we are at wits' end, what we need is not the same dry theories recited ad nauseam, but fresh inspiration.
I, for one, have faith in my erstwhile students to provide it. And I find their terms to be perfectly acceptable.
Order! Order! We have no time to waste on debate. I call a vote.
All in favor of agreeing to the Scions' terms?
Seventy-one in favor, twenty-eight against. The ayes have it.
Fourchenault, as the architect of this project, you are the best candidate to show them its current state. ...And bear in mind that, regardless of your personal misgivings, this is the will of the Forum.
Very well.
I call this session to a close. Return to your tasks with urgency─the Final Days wait for none.
Phew... I'll admit, bringing up the issue of the Forum's incomplete ark was more than a little daunting.
They were, to their credit, quite open about the current state of affairs. What was even more surprising, though, was when they took Alphinaud up on his offer!
Rest assured, I have every intention of honoring the Forum's decision.
While I very much take issue with the Forum's approach to selecting whom to save and when, they're not wrong for wanting to minimize potential conflicts.
Fortunately, if this plan of ours actually works, the great exodus itself will become entirely unnecessary...
Perhaps if Midgardsormr were still alive─in the traditional sense, that is─he could have offered to help the vessel attain the necessary speeds.
Then again, there's no guarantee his contribution would make enough of a difference to matter.
I'm a little vexed that we've yet to learn of the Forum's replacement for the Antitower, though I expect that in time, they'll share that too with us─and with Master Matoya, if they've any sense.
My affinity for espionage may have earned me the title of Archon, but I was completely unaware of the Forum's plans. There may have been clues here and there, had I been of a mind to look for them...but contemplating that possibility only serves to further wound my pride.
Not that anyone could have realistically surmised that their brilliant stratagem was to build a giant ship, fly to the moon─a still-larger vessel in truth─and use that to travel to another star. Even now, the whole idea seems positively absurd when spoken aloud.
The further we pursue the mysteries of the universe, the more I struggle to comprehend the fortuitous nature of time itself.
We measure and quantify it based on observations of celestial bodies, such as the sun and moon, but from your account it is unclear whether the ancients viewed time in a similar manner...
I mention this because while Venat knew the Final Days would reoccur at a defined point in the future, she presumably had no way of knowing exactly when.
Even so, the completion of the Forum's preparations to escape to the moon aligning so closely with the advent of the Final Days is surely no coincidence...
Of late, I have seen no sign of the Loporrits...
This being their first opportunity to experience the wonders of Sharlayan, the potential for misadventure is nigh infinite...
Sorry about not letting the rest of you in on my plan. I was, admittedly, thinking on my feet for the most part.
But since we require both a means of communing with Hydaelyn and reaching Meteion...
...In the spur of the moment, I saw involving ourselves with the completion of the ark as a way to work towards both objectives simultaneously.
However, we must first keep our end of the bargain by solving the problem of the aetherburner.
I'd like to think it is not a challenge beyond our combined expertise. Or at least the expertise of our extended circle of associates.
It might behoove us to learn how an aetherburner actually works before we attempt to improve it, though!
As Father seems so eager to help, maybe we can have him educate us about the aetherburner.
As instructed, I shall take you to see the aetherburner.
Meet me outside the Archeion. I trust you can make your own way there.
So the ark is being built in Labyrinthos. Hardly surprising. Where else could they conceal such a massive undertaking...
It seems so long ago we first set foot here.
Where once we were refused entry, we are now welcomed as guests...
That we have been granted permission to enter the lower levels is proof of our increased standing. Would that they had been willing to confide in us sooner...
Some would surely object to the Forum allowing “foreign elements” to have the run of their secret facilities. We should count ourselves lucky.
It has been many moons since I last visited Labyrinthos. As vast as the archives were back then, they've only continued to grow in the days since.
Among the many and varied documents sent to the moon, I did chance upon several inventories made in the Archeion.
Mayhap the Forum believed such records would provide insight into the intricacies of clerical duties. Regardless, the Loporrits did not consider them worthy of more than a cursory glance.
Do they intend to carry everything in the Archeion to the moon? They said they'd started loading scientific records and biological samples, but do they really need all of it?
I don't understand the appeal of reshaping it to look like the world above. Make your peace with what it is, or go outside if that's what you prefer.
Our destination lies in the lower levels.
The Forum, in its wisdom, has granted you access to the Archeion's lift.
Step inside and have Ophilyne take you to the Medial Circuit.
