Heard about the mechanical soldiers, have you? Indeed, they have been sighted in the East Shroud.
While I do not personally know the details, the Wood Wailers are in a state of heightened vigilance throughout the Twelveswood.
The mechanical soldiers were sighted in the East Shroud. While I do not personally know the details, the Wood Wailers are in a state of heightened vigilance throughout the Twelveswood.
Cat-people... Cat-people everywhere... Y'jhimei wasn't kidding.
So, were you able to learn anything about the mechanical soldiers?
I see! In that case, if we were to keep watch at the Bramble Patch, we should be able to find them eventually.
Well then, what're we waiting for?
Wait just a─
Please hurry after Noctis! The Twelveswood can be a veritable maze even for the locals, and it wouldn't do if he were to lose his way!
This the area, is it?
No luck so far. Guess we play the waiting game.
You hear that!? C'mon, let's check it out!
What the─!? That's a daemon!
That thing's dangerous. We can't leave it running around.
Heh, you're up for it too, eh? Come on then, let's do it!
Careful! That's not your average monster!
I don't like the looks of that pillar!
Ugh, that thing's trouble! We gotta do something about it!
Whoa, so that's how it works! I owe you one!
Two pillars this time! I'll take one, you take the other!
You gotta be kidding me...
Nothin' to it!
First magitek troopers, now a daemon... What the hell's going on?
Yeah, after a fight like that, I could certainly use a break.
Now that you mention it, I'm pretty hungry too.
Right, let's set up camp!
So, what's your story? Why do you go around doing what you do?
Protecting, huh? You and Gladio would get along, I bet. The big guy's always ready to throw himself into harm's way for us.
Supporting, huh? Come to think of it, you do give off Ignis vibes. Specs is always hovering around, ready to pick up after us.
What, you just wanna hang out with your friends? Heh, you're Prompto all over again. He's the life of the party, always ready with a quip to make us smile.
We were traveling together─me and him and a couple of others. Hearing your story, I couldn't help but be reminded of them...
...My purpose? That's a tough one. I guess you could say...it's keeping a promise.
But I can't do that while I'm here. I have to get back to my own world.
Somehow...
It's good that we took care of the daemon, but there weren't any clues this time either. <sigh>
So, how did you fare? Were you able to find your answers?
Nope. We found only more questions.
Like how the hell a daemon ended up here as well.
A daemon?
It's...a kind of monster.
From your world, I assume. And it somehow came to be here, in Eorzea...
I'm no naturalist, but I imagine it being similar to a voidsent.
And if even a monster such as that could find its way to our world, then surely─surely you can find your way back too!
Yeah, I hope so...
I'll keep working with my colleagues to find new leads. So just sit tight for now.
Actually, I'd rather go for a walk, check out the area a little. That's cool, yeah?
Well, it should be safe enough if you keep close to the city...
Great. See ya later.
Ah! Wait just a─
<sigh> There he goes again...
Though I do not think that Noctis would disappear on us, I would feel much better knowing you were with him. Will you go and keep him company?
I promise to have new information to share before long, so see that you both return soon, all right?
I promise to have new information to share before long. See that you both return soon, all right?
Oh, hey. What's up?
Well, you can tell Kipih she doesn't need to worry. I can take care of myself, and I'm not about to run off somewhere.
I was just checking out the clothing at this stall here. And as I was browsing, the shopkeeper offered me some stuff for free.
