What can I do for you today, adventurer? Eldritch trinket to trade?
...Eh? They've got you runnin' errands now? <snort> Them Scions really know how to make the most o' your talents, don't they? Sendin' the savior of Eorzea to the bleedin' market... Fine use o' your time, that is!
Seriously, though─you'd best learn how to say “no,” or they'll have you muckin' out the chocobo stables next.
Anyway, what was it you were here to pick up? The moon daisy, was it? Here, then─take it. And tell that Yda lass I've got a wide selection o' headwear in stock if she ever decides to replace that dowdy ol' mask o' hers. Gods know, she needs to...
Ugh, Rowena can be so annoying! She just will not take no for an answer. Every time I visit her, she insists I replace my visor with something more “fashionable.” And when I tell her I like it just fine the way it is, she says it again. And then again. And then AGAIN! It drives me crazy!
Uh, what I mean to say is, I really appreciate you doing this for me. So anyway...let's see it!
<sigh> Moenbryda loved these things, you know... I hope that somewhere, somehow, she knows I'm still thinking of her...
I'll never forget you, Moen. None of us will.
The song riseth to a crescendo.
Is that what I think it is...?
Hello!? Can you hear me!?
We have received grave tidings from Ishgard. Pray return to the Rising Stones at once.
My apologies for the interruption... I was deeply saddened to learn of Moenbryda's passing. Her loss will be sorely felt...
Alas, recent developments in Ishgard leave us little time to mourn. The envoy from Coerthas will soon arrive, and we must hasten to hear her report.
...The envoy is here.
I thank you for receiving me at such short notice. Time is of the essence, so I would forgo the usual pleasantries, if I may.
Certainly. You come with news of the Dravanians?
Aye, the dragons have begun their attack in earnest. The first wave reached the central highlands a short while ago, and battle was joined soon thereafter.
Ser Aymeric himself sallied forth with a contingent of Temple Knights and several companies of the noble houses' finest. Though the beasts were ultimately forced into retreat, our victory─if such it may be called─came at the cost of many of our own. Too many.
We will not withstand a second wave should the Dravanians renew their assault.
You paint a grim picture, my lady. It is reinforcements you seek, then?
We do. Though it pricks our pride, it is plain we cannot protect Ishgard with our ranks thus thinned by the Horde. Ser Aymeric would meet with you to discuss the possibility of enlisting your aid.
Very well. I shall depart for Coerthas at once.
I must warn you, however, that the involvement of the Crystal Braves is by no means assured─our commitment to quelling the unrest in Ul'dah must take precedence.
It is with such contingencies in mind that I must make another request. The Scions of the Seventh Dawn are known for sharing close ties with all three of the Grand Companies of Eorzea. Would you consent to plead our case to their leaders?
Hm. Though I will gladly appeal to the Grand Companies on your behalf, I dare not promise a favorable reply...
You need say no more. Considering our past dealings with the Eorzean Alliance, I can well imagine how our plea will be received.
But the fate of Ishgard hangs in the balance. We must explore every avenue still open to us─no matter how unpromising.
I see. Very well. I shall send envoys to each of the allied nations, and have them present your request directly to the heads of the Grand Companies.
In the event that your plea does receive a favorable answer, know that any support is certain to be conditional. Demands will be made of Ishgard...
That is only to be expected. Rest assured that I speak with Ser Aymeric's authority in this matter, and that our actions are fully sanctioned by the Holy See.
...Which brings me to my final request: a personal appeal to you, Warrior of Light. The lord commander much desires to speak with you, regardless of your fellows' involvement.
You faced Midgardsormr and survived. Anything you can share of your experience may yield us an advantage over our foe.
Thank you. You wear the mantle of hero well.
'Twould seem the road leads us both to Camp Dragonhead. Seek me out when you arrive, Forename.
