'Tis a pleasure to make your acquaintance, MistressMaster Forename. I have the honor of acting as this year's royal seneschal, and it is my duty to bring smiles and cheers to all the ladies of the realm.
What is Little Ladies' Day, you ask? Why, it is a day when the maidens of Eorzea are doted upon as princesses by their very own loyal seneschal!
'Tis a pleasure as always, Forename. I see ours is not the only celebration which can boast of your selfless assistance.
Mistress Aliapoh's proposal was quite unprecedented. And so confident was she in her vision that she had already secured the services of a performer and his goobbue companion before meeting with us.
I regret to say not all in Ul'dah share in her conviction. Many doubt the safety of such an act, which has brought our plans for Little Ladies' Day to a standstill.
The trepidation is not without cause, mind you. Some fifteen years ago, a supposedly tame goobbue ran amok in the city streets, causing untold harm.
When the seneschal informed us of these circumstances, I got to thinking: we could hold a Hatching-tide event here in Gridania, with a goobbue as the main attraction!
Not only would this lift the spirits of Gridania's people, but it would prove to those in Ul'dah that the goobbue poses no danger. Surely that would put any doubts to rest!
In fact, the performers have already arrived! Nonotta and I were treated to a display of their show, and I must say, never have I seen a goobbue so pretty and sweet.
Out of all the paths forward we could have taken, this seemed to be the only one which might please all parties. I came to Gridania at once so I could act as a witness for my peers in Ul'dah.
Since you're here, might you accompany me to the show? Someone as well versed in this realm's beastkin as you may be singularly qualified to tell us just how docile this goobbue is.
Eggs...? Quite an unusual form of payment, but I believe Mistress Aliapoh has plenty...
Regardless, the look on your face says you agree to my proposal. Many thanks, and I look forward to what is sure to be a fascinating show!
As would I! While I'm certain that there is nothing to fear, having a stout arm by my side will be most reassuring.
Well then, all is settled. The show of a lifetime awaits at Bentbranch Meadows─you had best not tarry.
Agreed. Let us make our way there and speak with Aldemund, the performer in charge. Oh, I can hardly wait!
The adorable goobbue is even now delivering eggtastic cheer to all in Bentbranch Meadows. Go there and speak with Aldemund─I'm sure he shall be most eager to treat you to their show.
I went to visit the goobbue along with Mistress Aliapoh. I must say, I never realized just how adorable they could be.
I...I don't believe I've ever been this close to one before...
