<grunt>
You're all right...
<snuffle>
That herd should be all right. Let's look for stragglers.
The rroneek are Turali too. None shall be left behind!
There's someone coming!
Call the hunters!
Run!
There must be something up ahead. Come!
There!
These are no match for the likes of us!
<bellow>
“In a panic” was clearly an understatement.
<grunt>
More are coming!
Seriously!?
Oof!
<rumble>
You're mine!
Oh dear...
Where did they all come from!?
All or nothing, then!
How do you like that!? ...Ahem.
Nice!
It seems that did the trick.
For the fodder, at least. But where's...
Look there! We've got a big one coming!
Impenetrable scales and wicked fangs...
That's a rroneek reaver, and no mistake.
There! That one there!
Not so fast!
Even should it cost me my life...
I will save the hhetso!
Koana, are you alright?
Do not concern yourself with me. Get the rroneek to safety!
There, there. You've nothing to fear.
Right, let's finish the job!
I made a vow to our people. You shall plague them no longer!
You'll find the Vow of Reason is not without resolve!
Dammit! Not even a scratch!
Buy me some time to think, will you?
It must have a weakness...and I will find it!
Koana!
Gah! For the love of...
Keep it busy! I need time!
Right. Go for the legs!
The legs!
Now we just have to keep it pinned...
Hraaah!
Get thinking, Koana!
Will do!
A protective current of aether... But whence does it flow?
The protective aether is there...
Conducted by the scales...
Now, trace that back...
To the point of greatest density!
I've got it!
Ngh!
This is our best chance...
One well-placed piercing round to the chest, and...
You're done for!
Ha!
That stemmed the flow of protective aether.
There's nothing stopping us now!
Still not backing down, huh? Fine with me!
It has yet to recollect its aether.
Get close!
We must disperse that aether ere the reaver recovers it!
This is going to hurt...
We did it.
The hhetso! Are they...?
The rroneek have all made it to Mehwahhetsoan. Hunters are scouring the area for any remaining threats, but the local fauna appear to have calmed down.
We cannot thank you enough for your timely aid.
You most of all, Vow of Reason.
We feared you would be loath to take direct action, yet you didn't hesitate to put your life on the line for our hhetso.
I did no more than is a Dawnservant's duty.
The aetherial conductivity of those scales is astounding. I daresay we could repurpose them to create a device that emits controlled pulses of aether.
...Aether resembling that of the predator the rroneek fear most.
It might work. If we struck the right balance, we would have the means to deter the rroneek from approaching the railroad without causing them undue distress.
Incredible! Koana, you've done it again!
I must say, I was hoping I'd never have to see one of these again...
Still haven't forgotten the last one─and it's been more than twenty years now.
I had come as a trader to the camp in Loazeniheta. A camp that was obliterated in an instant by that monster.
Loazeniheta? That's where the Pelupelu trader found me as a babe...
Please, can you tell me what you saw?
As I said, I had traveled there to trade with our fellow Hhetsarro.
Like us, they followed the rroneek. And like us, they were visited by a reaver.
The fiend struck like a whirlwind in the night. It was chaos.
I grabbed some token belongings and bolted in a panic, thinking only of getting as far away as possible. But even in my panicked state, I could not help but notice the young couple racing the other way─toward the fell creature!
"We'll distract it!“ I heard one cry. ”Save our son! Save the hhetso!“
After that, nothing but the pounding of my heart and feet and rroneek thunder. I ran and ran...and as the sun broke the horizon, I found myself separated from both man and beast.
Windborne words say that a group of survivors reunited with their remaining rroneek, and have long since moved on.
But still more were never seen again, including the brave couple...or so the story goes.
...And what became of their child?
I'm afraid I don't know. But if he wasn't with the survivors, even if he lived through that night... The wilderness wouldn't have been kind to a little one out on his lonesome.
Maybe not...but perhaps a passing Pelupelu would. And, one day, even the Dawnservant himself...
All these years, I was convinced that my parents had left me behind to follow after the rroneek.
But now I see. They didn't abandon me─they were trying to keep me safe.
I've wasted so much time resenting them, when in truth they gave me everything I have today.
It is thanks to them that I lived to know the warmth of family, even after they were gone.
And now that I am Dawnservant, all of Tuliyollal is my family.
A family I will always protect...as my parents protected me.
If Vow Koana counts us among his family, then he is part of ours.
You made felling that tturuhhetso look easy! On behalf of the hhetso, I thank you.
We certainly got more than we bargained for when we set out to solve our railroad conundrum...
I can't imagine how Koana must be feeling right now. That reaver─you don't suppose it was the same one that...?
To know that the hhetso are safe is more than enough. Yet...would it be wrong to hope that, in protecting them, we also avenged my parents? It is the least I owe to them, after all this time...
Forename, I thank you for standing by me. As Dawnservant...and as the oft imperfect man beneath that mantle.
Now, let us return our attentions to the matter we came here to address, shall we?
We have removed the root cause of the rroneek straying from their favored grazing, and obtained the tools to devise an additional precautionary measure─a silent “whistle,” as it were.
This whistle must be capable of emitting pulses of aether strong enough that they will shy away from the tracks on instinct, yet not so strong as to drive them into a panic.
If we can achieve this, it will be a far sight better than a traditional whistle. More effective and less stressful for the creatures themselves.
Let us return to Shaaloani Station and begin work on it, then. Wawlika and his crew will doubtless be relieved to finally have a solution.
I am pleased to have seen with my own eyes the wisdom and courage our new Dawnservants will use to lead this nation. I wish them all the best.
Now that the hhetso have taken to you, you'll have to come and see us again!
Ah, I always carry a spare pair of spectacles or two, as it can be difficult to find replacements outside of the city. You wouldn't believe how many I went through during the rite of succession...
A variety of artisans from across Tural have come to assist with the railroad, so I foresee no difficulty in creating the whistle that Koana proposed.
This train will be ready in no time!
You look pleased about something. Good news for the railroad, I take it?
So the rroneek were avoiding a predator... Smart ones, they are. And Vow Koana's not too bad himself, what with his whistle idea! Sit tight─we'll have this train on the tracks before you know it.
We're ready to go!
Whoa! She looks as good as new!
If I had time to do a proper job, I could've really made her shine.
Had to cobble together the exterior with spare parts. We refurbished the interior, though─not that you can appreciate it from out here.
But as far as the rroneek are concerned, we've spared no effort.
From the ballast to the ties, we've adjusted every bit of the track so she'll run quiet as a field mouse.
You and your crew have worked wonders. Our nation is in your debt.
Come now─if anything, credit's due to Tuliyollal! It's thanks to the folk you recruited from every corner of the continent that we were able to get her up and running so quickly.
Besides, the aetherial whistle's the true marvel, and we wouldn't have that without the scales you brought us.
However grateful you are, know that we're even more thankful.
Right! If we're done talking, let's put this train through her paces!
There's a rroneek up ahead.
Now to test our whistle...
On it! Just point it in the general direction and...
It's moving away.
Meanwhile, our friends over there appear wholly unperturbed.
With this, we can alert those who wander too close without disturbing the rest of the herd.
A roaring success! ...In a quiet way, like.
Then with your permission, Vow of Reason... The Xak Tural railroad is back in service!
With that, I believe our work here is done. The fine people of Xak Tural Railing can take it from here.
Now anyone will be able to come and go from the dome as they please! I can't wait to spread the word in Alexandria.
I expect that with the reaver gone, the rroneek will gradually return to their old habits, and we won't see so many approaching the tracks. It is good to see that the whistle will be effective in the meantime, however.
The folks that Vow Koana brought in to help rebuild the railroad have already returned home, but I hope we can give them a ride someday.
For a while there, we were real worried that we'd never get the railroad running again.
But now that the test drive was such a success, we can breathe easy and start hauling people to and from the dome.
First Shaaloani, and then...the continent! Watch out, Xak Tural─here we come!
I share the sentiment, but we've got a mountain of work ahead of us to ensure smooth operations. Time to get back to it...
The efforts of all here today have not gone unnoticed. Once more, I thank you.
As for our own work...I trust you can handle matters in Alexandria, Lamaty'i?
It won't be as I once envisioned...but perhaps someday we can take that train journey to Yyasulani together.
Well, it's possible that Shale's made some headway by now. And regardless, we should spread word that the railroad's been restored to service.
Shale? What do you have her working on?
Gulool Ja's mother...
I'd feel the same in his shoes. Have felt the same. Some questions are painful to leave unanswered...
There's no cause to look at me like that. The Cahciua we met may have only been a simulacrum, but her memory was real.
I needn't search for what she left behind, because she left it with me. And I will carry it always...
Speaking of things you're carrying...
Is that a teeny-tiny Cahciua?
What!? No!
It is merely a token from Alexandria. Our friends in Oblivion would not take no for an answer, and I thought it as good a souvenir as any...
Whatever you say... For what it's worth, I think it's a nice way to bring her with you on your travels.
...Yes. Well. You're off to the dome now, aren't you?
I thought I might join you for a time. See if there is aught I can do for the people there. Much changed though it is, I still consider it my home.
Of course! We can give you the full story on the way.
You heading to the Backroom?
Glad you're back. We wouldn't want to keep Gulool Ja here waiting any longer than necessary.
Looks like we arrived at a good time.
So Zoraal Ja was conducting secret research in Yuweyawata... I have some memories of the place from my childhood.
Erenville is wearing his Cahciua! That makes me happy.
You must be exhausted. Shall I nip out for an energy tonic?
Seeing Erenville never fails to remind me of Cahciua...and I wouldn't have it any other way.
The dead should be remembered, this I firmly believe. Gulool Ja's mother deserves that too.
...A simple yet elegant solution. And thus is the railroad back in operation.
Meanwhile, Shale has nearly finished processing the data. She will be able to share her findings with us imminently.
...I'm interrupting something, I gather.
Why, Y'shtola! What brings you here?
I've seen enough of the gate in the Skydeep Cenote for now, so I'm shifting my investigation to Living Memory.
While there, I thought I would do well to have the company of an expert on electrope.
I'd like to take a closer look at the place myself. I can join you once we've finished here.
Lest you fear I've forgotten, once I've made headway with Living Memory, the key in your keeping shall be the next subject of my scrutiny.
There was a mountain of data to sift through─much of it tantalizing, I admit.
But it will take time to fully decrypt everything that piques my interest, so to answer our immediate question, I've been concentrating my efforts on the audio saved by Teeshal Ja herself.
While I've not listened to it yet, I have a selection ready for playback. Would you like to hear it now?
Yes, please!
All right. Several audio files will now play in sequence.
...I, er... Ahem. My name is Teeshal Ja, and I've decided to record this to...to help me put my thoughts in order, I suppose.
Mother...?
Officially, I am─was?─a chirurgeon with the Landsguard. I was part of a contingent dispatched to Yyasulani to hunt a tural vidraal that was wreaking havoc.
After our mission was complete, I elected to remain. It was the perfect opportunity to document the geographic distribution of medicinal herbs in this region.
...Or so I said when requesting special dispensation. In truth...I could not bear to return to Tuliyollal.
I had hoped to aid Commander Zoraal Ja in the rite of succession, but he did not so much as look my way. I was never in contention, of course─one of the nameless many in his army...
To go back and face that reality was too much for me, so I ran. And in my cowardice, I stumbled upon this path. A path that changed my life.
When the dome appeared, I found myself trapped within...and reunited with my commander.
