So this is what the Light was hiding...
She's here. I must go to her.
She's here. I must go to her.
Intruders! Fan out and find them!
Out of my way!
Stay your weapon. We are not your enemy.
When the alarum sounded, I wondered what we had done to betray our presence. But I see now we were not the only intruders.
Ser Estinien, I presume─the dragoon who plucked the Warrior of Light from the jaws of death. Your armor is most distinct.
Much as yours once was. But even without it, I see a former legatus still has eyes and ears in unexpected places.
“Van” Baelsar, in the flesh. Though I understand you prefer “Shadowhunter”?
Hmph. You are in contact with the Scions, I take it.
Hmph. Through no choice of my own. They tracked me down, and conscripted me to their cause.
I swear their receptionist was trained as a spy. Not that anyone can escape that Baldesion woman once she has caught the scent of your aether...
If they have resorted to using freelancers, I must assume their attempts to wake the afflicted have failed...
And what of their champion?
...Away on other business. Thus it has fallen to me to root out any trace of the Empire's new weapon.
If it is Black Rose you seek, you are too late. My people have already completed your mission here.
Yet this is but one factory among many. When they caught wind of our efforts, they built additional facilities to ensure production continues unabated.
There will be no one left in the lands they conquer. No citizens to conscript, no skills to exploit, nothing the Empire needs. And they will call it victory.
...What exactly does this Black Rose do?
The gas is described as a poison, but its actual effect is more arcane in nature.
It was created to disrupt the aether in living beings─to bring the flow of their life energies to a standstill.
Inhaling even the tiniest amount will cause all bodily functions to cease, much as a potent venom will stop a man's heart.
Released over a city, Black Rose could conceivably kill every inhabitant, and all without damaging a single structure.
Search every corner! Rouse the barracks if you have to! I want this facility secured!
I have more questions, but now is not the time.
Ser Estinien. I have an offer for you, but I will make it only once.
Since it would seem we seek the same answers...you are welcome to join us.
Hah! From what I hear, you need all the help you can get.
In case you don't know, Varis himself confessed that your empire was a creation of the Ascians.
I am aware of what His Radiance said at the parley.
Thus I would return to the capital, that I might behold the truth of this corruption with my own eyes.
My path leads to Garlemald.
Ah, begging your pardons, miss, but do you perchance intend to head outside?
If so, I would strongly advise you not to stray too far from the Crystarium. Word has it Eulmore has dispatched its military to Lakeland.
Given the timing, one can only assume they do not welcome the return of night. Even now, the Exarch is in the Ocular, deliberating a response.
Do you have business with the Crystal Exarch? Just say the word, and I would be happy to escort you to the Ocular.
You are come at a good time. As you may have heard, we have something of a quandary on our hands.
Laxan Loft, here in Lakeland. Eulmore has sent one of its airships.
They have questions for us concerning the death of the Lightwarden. Their emissary makes his way here even as we speak.
I suppose the sky does rather give the game away.
Indeed. 'Twas inevitable they would come knocking. The only question was how soon.
My lord. I am come with the Eulmoran emissary. May I show him in?
A moment, Captain, if you would.
Everyone, gather round.
I do not wish to show our hand prematurely. Forgive me this liberty.
Vanish!
Enter.
Well, well... The commander of the Eulmoran Army himself. To what do I owe the honor, General Ran'jit?
