Kweh...
<sigh> I wish you didn't have to go, Papa...
Huh? You're the adventurer from before... What are you doing here?
<pant> <pant> Oh, thank the kami we found you, Sibly...!
A-And the lady in the fancy helmet, too! How did you know my name?
I see... I'm sorry to cause you both trouble. I just wanted to visit my papa's favorite fishing spot, but your chocobo chick ended up following me all the way.
Well, he's safe with you now. If there's nothing else, I'll be off...
Pray wait a moment! In the course of searching for Ryunosuke, we couldn't help but learn that your father will soon embark upon a voyage, and it has left you feeling troubled.
I realize we are but strangers, but if you are not averse, will you not talk to us about it?
It's all right. My papa, he...he's heading to Hingashi for trade. I heard that it's a long and dangerous journey, and it made me worry.
I wanted to pray to the Navigator to keep him safe at sea.
But then I found out that Llymlaen wasn't chosen this Heavensturn, and it made me worry even more...
I see...
As you say, it isn't the Navigator, but the Keeper who presides over the heavens this year...
But if not the Navigator, I thought I could at least pray to a god from the Far East. That's why I went to talk to you.
So that is the way of it. You came to me hoping to beseech our divinities to protect your father...
But in my fervor to showcase our mascot, I failed to lend an ear to your earnest desire.
Well, I hear you now, young one, and I shall tell you a tale about the ryu that will grant you comfort!
I just...er, need to recall a suitable one. Something that ideally features the ocean...
Kweh! Kweh, kweh!
Oh? What's gotten into you, little one?
Curious what lies that way, are you? It's a place called Woad Whisper Canyon. Papa told me that waterfalls appeared there after the Calamity, and they changed the flow of the Nym River.
Waterfalls changing the course of a river...?
I believe I have the perfect tale for you, Sibly! One that will bolster your spirits as your father departs on his journey!
Let us head to these waterfalls, that we might avail ourselves of their ambience. Even Ryunosuke is keen, and we wouldn't want to ignore such a fortuitous omen.
A story that will give me comfort...? I wonder what it's about!
Kweh, kweh!
Come, let us head to these waterfalls. They would provide the perfect setting for my tale.
They're big waterfalls, aren't they?
Kweh, kweh!
Ahem! Let us begin... The ryu is a creature that shares many similarities with the dragons of Eorzea, but as I myself recently discovered, it is in fact a distinct being.
Nor is there just the one ryu. Nay, there exist myriad individuals, all of whom have their own tales. And the creature I will speak about is the mighty Seiryu, one of the Four Lords, who legend holds birthed a great waterfall in the Far East.
Kweh!
Hee hee! That does sound exciting, doesn't it!
In the region of Yanxia flows the One River, and its plentiful waters nourish nearby lands. In ages past, it is said Seiryu drank so deeply of the river that he altered its very course, and in so doing gave rise to a waterfall─the Dragon's Struggle.
While it is not widely known, Seiryu was also regarded as a guardian deity who protected people from disasters of water.
Disasters like storms and floods?
Indeed. Long ago, it was believed that calamities could be quelled by sacrificing a young maiden to a divine beast such as Seiryu.
And while no written records exist, there is a tale of a seaside village that fell in the path of a raging storm. Desperate to calm the heavens, the villagers offered unto Seiryu one of their daughters.
However, Seiryu showed no interest whatsoever in the young girl. To merely know the villagers' plight was enough for him, it seemed, and he turned the course of the storm and spared them untold devastation.
A benevolent being is Seiryu, who wields his power over water for good. Even now he hears our prayers, and protects us and our loved ones from harm.
That, my dear, is just one example of the noble beast we celebrate this Heavensturn. Together, let us offer a prayer to Seiryu, and wish your father safe travels and calm waters.
That sounds perfect, miss! Thank you so much!
We must thank Ryunosuke as well. Were it not for him, I might not have recalled the tale of Seiryu.
Now you can pray to Seiryu for safe travels too, adventurer! ...Oh, but perhaps you already heard this story?
Really? Well, then, I'm glad we could hear it together!
Really? Well, then, I'm glad we could hear it together!
Y-You mean to say you've met the great Seiryu himself!? To think that he was more serpentine in nature... If this is true, we would be able to celebrate him in the year of the snake as well!
Now that I think on it, miss, you said that no written records exist of that tale. How did you come to know it?
An astute observation, Sibly. You see, my family is said to be descended from the maiden who was offered to Seiryu.
As long ago as the event took place, there is no way to confirm the tale's veracity. But if true, then it is by the grace of Seiryu that I am here, alive. Thus have I made it my mission to spread the word of his noble kind.
Looking back, from the time you followed after Sibly, it is as if you have been guiding me, little one. I may be your caretaker, but it was you who was watching over me.
Just like an honest-to-gods ryu!
With this, I now know what I must do to initiate people into our traditions, and I shall continue doing so for as long as the ryu reigns in the heavens.
Come, let's head back to the city together. We wouldn't want to make your father worry, now would we, Sibly?
Is that so? Glad am I to hear that our adventurer friend was of assistance.
Kweh!
There you are, adventurer. Lest you wonder, young Sibly is now safely home, and I have just apprised the ryu metsuke of our fruitful outing.
Now that I have discovered a more suitable approach to my draconic dilemma, I wish to wander the city again for onlookers. Though I regret to impose upon you once more, your support with Sibly was most helpful... Might you accompany me while I make my rounds about the area?
With your discerning eyes, I am certain that you could readily identify those who might be receptive to our message. What say you?
I'm truly grateful! Come, let us set forth at once!
Ryu and dragon, east and west... While the differences between our cultures are numerous indeed, we have much and more to learn from one another. Together with Ryunosuke, I hope to leave a favorable impression!
Not to worry! We shall await you at the Aftcastle when you are ready to continue.
You are ready to continue? Excellent, let us be off!
Kweh, kweh!
Kweh, kweh!
Kweh...
Kweh...
Kweh, kweh!
Kweh, kweh!
While you accompany my colleague, I shall remain here and regale passersby with tales from my own ryu repertoire. With Ryunosuke's brother Ryuji here, rest assured I shall not want for cuteness!
