Hearken to the chaos, brothers!
Lo, the mad udgan comes!
Still alive, Forename? Good! If we want to claim the ovoo, we'll need to deal with those two first!
In death do our souls sing!
I don't like the looks of those giant stone thingies!
Hmph. How dare you...
Well done, well done! Victory is within our reach!
The ovoo, Forename! Claim it! Claim it now!
Defend the ovoo! Let none pass!
The Steppe has spoken!? Then the khagan is...
We have won... The Mol have won! The Dawn Throne is ours!
We did it... And you, my friend...you...you were magnificent.Magnificent...and, uh...not a little terrifying.
What a strange tale this is become. To think I suffered them to live...
On your guard, udgan. The wind warns of men in iron.
Hah-hah! I thought I'd find you here, Eorzean! Dearest of all my enemies!
Today's the day I finally get to kill you! And then they'll give me a shiny medal, and my choice of posting! Bloody perfect, it is!
Well, go on, then! Kill her! Kill 'em all!
Dearest of all his enemies, eh? Congratulations.
Hearken to me, honored warriors of the Steppe! Our enemies intrude upon this sacred ground! Have you yet the strength to oppose them!?
You forget to whom you speak, Doman. We are the undying ones.We are Dotharl.
If this be the will of the Mol and their khagan, so be it. The Sun shall abide by the law of the Steppe.
Drive the ironmen from our lands! The khagan wills it!
Such fortuitous timing you have to face a Steppe united!
Now this is more like it! All the imperials I can punch!
That's the spirit! Let's not let her put us to shame!
Never did the thought cross my mind, my lord!
Hold fast, warriors of the Steppe! We can defeat them!
Let naught be left in our wake!
I don't like the looks of those giant stone thingies!Get rid of them─now!
Oh, if I must... The Sun claims these ironmen!
Aid the khatun! She must finish her spell!
Bugger, bugger, bugger!
But I had you, I had you!
Impossible! She was there for the taking! What do I have to do!?
I need more men...more weapons...more power!
Graaaaaah!
As if we'd lose to the likes of him! And we're only gonna get stronger. Stronger and stronger until we're strong enough to take back everythingthey stole!
I have kept my promise, Cirina. They are yours to command.
Oh! Yes, of course!
Brothers and sisters of the Steppe! The Naadam is ended, and we Mol now claim the Dawn Throne.
No demands shall we make of you save these: heed our comrades' words, and honor the law of the Steppe!
Before I fought for the Mol, I fought for my homeland─for Doma...
To Doma would you have us go, to fight your war and win your freedom?
Very well. The battlefield matters not, nor else the enemy.In battle do our souls burn bright.
And better the Mol's law than that of the Sun. Arrogant and foolhardy were their pronouncements. Already you and yours show better sense.
The Sun shall answer your call, Doman.Wild as the wind the udgan and her brood may be, but they will deliver you naught. We will deliver you your kingdom.
Weak and few as we are, the Mol will fight for Doma too. If you will have us.
Well then! I believe naught remains but to return to Doma at the head of a Xaela army, my lord! I cannot wait to see the look on Yugiri's face...
Nor I. We shall depart as soon as our forces are assembled and rejoin our comrades. And then, my friends, we shall bring freedom to the people of Doma!
Your imperial friend has truly impeccable timing. Had he come even a few moments earlier, he might actually have stood a chance.
In any event, that is two battles won in a single day. Which, by my reckoning, gives us twice the cause to celebrate!
But first, I pray you grant me a moment to express my gratitude. Thanks to you, we are one step closer to freeing my homeland from the tyranny of the Empire. I am in your debt.
Of course...if all goes to plan, this is like to be but the first of many such debts. Yet I promise to endure my insolvency with a smile, out of gratitude to the kami for seeing fit to send you hither.
Ah, but it would be rude of me to monopolize your attention. Doubtless there are others who would speak with you.
Let us go and greet Temulun Khatun.
Welcome, warriors of the Steppe. It is an honor to receive you once more.
We observed the battle from a distance, and marked the moment of your triumph. In that instant, I wept tears of joy.
Not only did you bring us victory in the Naadam, but you ensured that every one of my kinsmen returned with their lives.
Some were more gravely wounded than others, but none were lost to us. We could not have asked for anything more.
If it is not too much of an imposition, would you be willing to go and speak with them? A simple gesture for those with whom you shared the battlefield.
Some part of me still struggles to believe it, but we won! We defeated the Oronir and the Dotharl and won!
When they appeared before us I was filled with such fear as I had never known. But then I saw you charge with Cirina and the others, and before I knew it, I was running and shouting...
I will carry the memory of that moment with me always. As well as the moment when you became one with the ovoo and were declared khagan!
The victorypose you struck was a sight to behold! I say, would you be willing to show us again?
