Soon! Sssoon it shall begin! Our Lord shall rise 'midst sssurging waves to wash away the finless ones!
And I shall be granted the gift and knowledge of eternity, and with the emissary ssstand equal! Then shall I know no cesssation, no oblivion!
...Whence comes this promise of immortality? The emissary?
We have outstayed our welcome.
“The gift...and knowledge.”
Are the two of you quite well?
You...you shared that vision, did you not?
Even before the Sahagin made mention of the emissary, I recognized Elidibus's words. He is behind this.
But surely it is not within his power to grant the Echo?
My lady─unless we act swiftly, Leviathan will rise again. The Admiral has already requested that we intervene to prevent this. Failing that, we are to attend to the primal's extermination.
She will have our full cooperation. Let us make haste to Limsa Lominsa.
I mean to play a part in this mission. Tataru─pray take charge in my absence.
My lady, are you sure this is wise?
I am aware of the risks. But there is something I must see with mine own eyes.
...The true nature of the Echo.
Very well. I shall not stand in your way...on the condition that you permit me to accompany you as bodyguard.
Your company is ever welcome, Thancred.
I take it something ill is afoot?
Aye. A primal is about to be loosed upon Eorzea.
A...primal?
A godlike being whose very existence is a bane upon the land. We Scions of the Seventh Dawn are sworn to put an end to their kind.
I see. Know then that I am learned in the arts of war. In return for the kindness you have shown my people, I would lend you my blade.
It would be most welcome. When contending with a primal, one can never have too many able allies.
If you crave a more intimate understanding of the problems facing Eorzea, this experience is like to provide it. Be sure to come well prepared.
Plainly, should the worst come to pass, and Leviathan is summoned, our only recourse will be to face him in battle. Given past experience, you may very well think that eventuality inevitable...
Yet so long as there is even a chance that the primal's return might be prevented, we must needs bend all our efforts toward achieving that goal.
Before we do aught else, let us hasten to Limsa Lominsa and meet with the Admiral.
She will not have been idle in the intervening time, and will doubtless have valuable information to share.
You are expected. Pray take this lift to the command room.
Welcome, friends. I take it Y'shtola has apprised you of the situation?
Let us waste no time, then. According to our best intelligence, the Sahagin had not crystals enough to summon their god.
Alas, we did not count on the Serpent Reavers venturing as far as Thanalan to supplement their cache. For our shortsightedness, we are faced with the grim prospect of Leviathan's imminent return.
Needless to say, I am not inclined to let the fishbacks have their way. Even as we speak, the Maelstrom makes ready to launch a large-scale operation to thwart the summoning, and we would welcome the Scions' support in this endeavor.
...But if, gods forbid, our efforts should come to naught, I will need to trouble you for more than mere support─much as I did when Titan last walked these lands.
Lady Minfilia, I am given to understand that you mean to accompany our soldiers to the front lines. I can only assume that you have sound reasons for doing so?
I do, Admiral. But I would rather not be drawn on their nature. I will say only that there is something I would see with mine own eyes.
Is that so? ...Well, I am not so stubborn as to deny the wish of one whose aid I require─but precautions must be taken. I shall require that you remain by my side at all times. With that settled, let us speak of the operation.
Captain Surname─our scouts are currently reconnoitering Sahagin movements within the Sapsa Spawning Grounds.
Upon completing their mission, they will return to the operation's staging point at Camp Skull Valley. I want you to make your way there forthwith, that you might be apprised of the latest intelligence. Commander Falkbryda has charge of the garrison.
