May the Crystal Tower...again be a beacon of hope for mankind.
Go, damn you!
<cough> Must move onwards... Th-This is not where I come to rest!
But how did...?...So those damn clones did it, after all.
Now, onwards!
Aaaaaaaaah!
You owe me, Nero.
The hells I do!
You are returned unharmed, thank the gods!
When that voidgate started to close... I had never felt so powerless in all my life!
We were running about like madmen, trying to keep the gate open─and then the chief actually went and dived in! But if you're all sa─ Hm?
Wh-Where are Unei and Doga? They're not...?
...I see. I will miss the two of them dearly, but I am happy they fulfilled their purpose.
We who live on must still attend to the Crystal Tower...though we now have no one able to seal it.
That is not true, my friend. Unei and Doga have entrusted me with their blood. I can now control the Crystal Tower.
G'raha... Yes, I can see it in your eyes. Good. Then let us put an end to this, and seal away the tower.
I understand your instinct, Rammbroes, but please, give us a moment to rest. I am weary to the bone, and Nero and Forename are both emerged from long battle.
Of course, of course, you have the right of it. Come, we shall leave this place for a spell, and repair to Saint Coinach's Find.
No one but you could have succeeded in the World of Darkness, Forename.
Would that I could have been of more use beyond the rift. As it stands, I was but a vessel for Doga and Unei's blood...
Hm? Have I remembered what I wished to?
...Yes, something has come back to me. Gaining royal blood and witnessing true bravery has reminded me of my forebears' dearest wish.
But we need not speak of these things now. It was not my place to keep you. Pray go on ahead of me; there is something small I would do before I return.
I could not have asked for a better comrade. If only I could have been a part of your adventures for longer, Forename... Alas, fate dictates I have a different role to play.
A wish hidden for millennia, and brought to light by the good people of NOAH...
Now, finally, 'tis my time to see it realized.
I cannot express how glad I am you returned safely, Forename─and with the means to dispel the threat of the Crystal Tower for good!
Rest if you will, and then let us free ourselves from the specter of the Allagans!
I trust you have rested, my friend. Good. I wish to seal the tower now...but there is something we must do first.
Let me summon the others, and hear in full what happened beyond the rift.
...So the Allagan Eye that runs in G'raha's line does mean that royal blood flows in his veins.
I suppose it is not so odd to think his forebears gained it via ancient technology. But who imbued his family with the blood, and for what purpose?
Mayhap all this was fate, from discovering the tower to G'raha gaining Unei and Doga's blood.
Has G'raha said anything? For that matter, where is G'raha? And what of Nero?
I'm not sure about our resident historian, but Nero left the tower with me. Where he's vanished to since, I cannot say.
But knowing him as I do, I don't believe he'll scheme against us for the time being. ...Though he is still Nero.
Forename, you say G'raha stayed behind at the Crystal Tower. I wonder if he even now prepares to seal the place off.
