...We do not often receive guestsss. What is the purpossse of your visit?
Greetings and well met. We are the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, and we come seeking Sarisha of the Vira. You are she, are you not?
You have petitioned us for aid and succor, and we intend to provide them, but we would first learn more of Sri Lakshmi, that we might better understand the nature of the threat she poses to you.
A sssimple requessst, and one which I shall gladly oblige.
In the beginning was Sri Lakshmi. We were created in Her image─daughters blesssed with Her beauty. Her breath became ours; Her ssserenity our sssolace. There is naught She would not give.
Hm. 'Twas the Qalyana broodmother's desire to bring about her daughter's resurrection which first called forth Sri Lakshmi from the aether. That being the case, I rather doubt the goddess will be spoiling for a fight.
That would depend. The primal's motives will have been colored by the summoner's state of mind─namely, that of a grieving mother who had just borne witness to her daughter's murder. Though she apparently craved a miracle, she may also have harbored thoughts of vengeance.Moreover, the Qalyana's conception of Sri Lakshmi may differ from that of the Vira.
Thisss is true. The Vira and the Qalyana do indeed regard the Lady of Blisss in different ways.
To the Vira, Sri Lakshmi embodies freedom. She would not sssuffer Her daughters to be bound to another's will. And ssso we ssstand with the Resissstance againssst the Empire, and give our lives for the cause.
To the Qalyana, however, She embodies transsscendental beauty, which they ssstrive to create through their craft. To shape cryssstal is lesss art and more ritual─a sssacred duty wherein each tribute is imbued with a fragment of the sssoul.
The imperials do not interfere with thisss holy work, and ssso the Qalyana were content to turn inward and ignore our plight.
...Until reality asserted itself, and they summoned a primal. A fever dream to soothe their aching hearts.
But surely they can see that it won't do any good! The imperials will still rule these lands. Nothing will change!
The Ananta will. The Qalyana bade the Vira make pilgrimage to “pay proper respects,” remember? Those who do not wish to partake of their primal's bliss will be made to do so.
Not while we're around they won't!
Though our beliefsss are not the sssame, we are ssstill kin to the Qalyana. Will you help them to sssee reason?
Then we shall, for without you we may be powerlesss to ssstop them.
...Do what you will, warrior. That sssimulacrum is not Sri Lakshmi.
If we do not act quickly, more lives will be lost, more families torn apart...more children made to suffer.
Then it's settled─we're going to find that primal and put an end to this!
My sssister Vajra will guide you to Djanan Qhat...and I shall pray for your successs.
