......
...I think it's past time we returned these clothes.
I was so confident our garments would meet with your approval... <sigh> Whatever are we doing wrong?
The watcher taught us that, in his time, everyone wore the same robes. To do otherwise was against social etiquette.
We thought we could appeal to modern tastes by tailoring the robes to specific professions, but...
Please, you mustn't be so hard on yourself. Should we resort to evacuating the people of Etheirys, they will most certainly have need of your attire.
'Tis clear you spared no effort in addressing our needs, but you must understand that we are not quite so...homogenous.
Speaking for myself, what I wear now better suits my tastes, even if it is of inferior make.
But there are others whose choices may be influenced by traditions or personal experience. Rather than make assumptions for the whole, you must consider the individual and their potential preferences.
I fear we've underestimated the complexity and diversity of your people. <sigh>Even if we'd memorized every tome we received, I doubt we'd have fared much better.
Maybe we're doing you a disservice trying to shower you with our baubles and frippery, thinking it was for your benefit when you'd be better off on your own...
...There are some who might agree. People who prefer to keep others at arm's length, even when they know they shouldn't.
As one such former fool, I'd like to ask you a question.
This plan to evacuate and escape the Final Days─did it account for the reflections of the Source as well?
Um... Not that I'm aware of...
We were born of Hydaelyn's love for Etheirys, and the salvation of the people on that star, and that star alone, has ever been our aim.
Surely it's better to devote ourselves to saving one world than to divide our efforts across fourteen, and risk failing them all?
...I suppose you're right.
Livingway, might we have leave to explore Bestways Burrow unattended? You have given us much to think about.
Why, certainly.
Until later, then.
If I may, I should like to accompany thee a while longer.
Really!?
I-I mean, you're more than welcome to. There was actually something I wished to speak with you about.
Let's be off then, shall we?
