For Eorzea!
A moment of your time, Forename. I would speak of Elidibus─
Pardon the intrusion, my lady, but the matter which bringeth me will admit no delay. Mine every attempt to contact the Students of Baldesion hath been met with silence.
No one will respond?
How odd. Allow me to try.
...No response. Surely they would not ignore us?
They have never yet, my lady. I fear we must assume the worst.
No. No, I will not believe it. An outpost, perhaps, but not their headquarters.
Their wards are beyond circumvention. Had they come under attack, they would most certainly have raised the alarm. None could penetrate their sanctum unnoticed─
But for those who lack the gift and the knowledge both. Oh no...
Contact their agents in the field at once. If aught has befallen the Students of Baldesion, they may know of it.
...Though the thought of it pains me, until such time as we have evidence to the contrary, we can but assume the worst. Accordingly, we must needs seek another source of information on Elidibus.
'Tis possible that others in the homeland are possessed of such knowledge. Be fairly warned, however: they are unlike to yield it unconditionally.
Do what you must.
Yet another unforeseen and unwelcome development...
What could be next, I wonder? A visit from a crimson-clad Ascian, perhaps? Or ocher? Or puce? And which of our allies will then fall silent...?
...For a time, I thought we had gained the upper hand.
When you shattered the Crystal of Darkness and cast out Lahabrea, I dared to hope that we had found a way to rid ourselves of the Ascian menace.
But I was wrong. He endures, and may yet return. Upon that point, I have no doubt that Elidibus spoke true.
Yet there must be a way to destroy them utterly─a way to spare this world their unholy machinations!
I dare not consider the alternative...
There are forces at work we do not understand, Forename.
I discern them all around─in disturbances too great and too numerous to be dismissed as mere coincidence. Doubtless the Paragons are involved, but how and to what end is far from clear.
I know not what will come, but I do know that we will rise and meet it as one.
Ah, my stalwart hero... Your face is a picture of resolve.
I know that you will be ready when the time comes. With luck, however, that will not be for a while yet. Pray return to your private affairs with my blessing. Should anything arise, you will be informed.
Krile...where are you?
Your intercession was not foretold.
You object?
We question. Our plans are in motion, your intentions unclear.
They survived the Seventh Ardor and are stronger now in the gift. Does that not intrigue you?
...No, it does not.
Serve as you will. So too shall I. We labor not at cross purposes.
The wisdom of His plan shall become apparent in time, when the veil is lifted from their eyes...
And, at long last, they see.
Do I know you? ...Ah! Unless I am very much mistaken, you are the famed adventurer who bested the Garlean Empire's general, are you not? The great Forename Surname herself! Amazing—and more than a little serendipitous. One might even call it fate. I but recently received word of a truly unique opportunity, you see—an opportunity the like of which none but one of your proven worth could take advantage.
The reward? Naught less than the accumulated knowledge of a fallen civilization. The risk? A single misstep could cost you your life. But what is a little danger to a storied hero such as you?
A woman with absolute confidence in her own abilities stands to profit handsomely from this venture. No, no, I crave no recompense for my part in bringing this opportunity to your attention—the historic discoveries you shall make will be reward enough, I assure you.
If my words have fanned the flames of your curiosity, then I bid you seek a man by the name of Rammbroes at Saint Coinach's Find. It is he who stands at the doorway to untold marvels, awaiting the arrival of a champion bold enough to march across the threshold.
It is Saint Coinach's Find to which you must travel. Seek out the man known as Rammbroes, and learn what treasures—and dangers—await you.
