Chief Hermes, what good fortune to find you here.
Is something the matter?
The lykaon─I'm afraid it's done it again.
No sooner did we release one for observation than it set upon the nearby okyupetes, slaughtering them.
Was the creature hungry? Or somehow provoked?
I had just fed them myself, and the okyupetes were keeping a wide berth. It is the nature of the lykaon that is to blame. Their innate viciousness.
Temperament aside, it is an outstanding creation, perfect in form and function.
Though it may not be suited for release, I've no doubt that the bureau will accept its concept for preservation.
In any case, there's no point in postponing the inevitable. Doros will revert them all once the paperwork is in order.
Where is the scene of the incident?
Just off the path to the Twelve Wonders. As you make your way, you should see it on the left. I don't know if Doros is still there, however.
H-Hermes! Wait!
If this is part of his work, then I would observe. We follow.
A fearsome beast, this lykaon... But where is it now?
The okyupete is no easy prey. With its hooves and horns, it was designed to be formidable even on land.
Yet they didn't stand a chance against the lykaon...
It's heavy... Hermes's pain...
The lacerations and burns are unmistakable. A lykaon was indeed responsible.
But the creature is nowhere to be seen. Doros must have taken it away.
The man makes his base at the Twelve Wonders. I shall go and seek him out there.
Emet-Selch and I will search the area for good measure. Just to make sure the lykaon did not escape.
My thanks. Let us meet at the Twelve Wonders when you have finished.
I will go on ahead. Please follow with Forename.
Come, come. It's down this path and over the bridge.
There it is─the Twelve Wonders. Hermes is looking for Doros. Let's look for Doros too!
He's a man with long, blond hair...I think. I'll know him when I see him!
Come on, let's find Doros. He's a man with long, blond hair...I think!
All right! I'll wait in front of the Twelve Wonders.
Ready to look for Doros again? Let's go, let's go!
