My, such fury! Patience, my queen. We've only just begun.
Defend Ser Charibert! Kill the rebels!
Damn! There's no end to them!
It seems you are beyond reason. How marvelous...
I suppose now is as good a time as any...
Stop this, all of you! It is madness! Why are you fighting!?
Lord Haurchefant! Over here!
Hmph. How fitting. The noble bastard and the mongrel bitch.
This mongrel bitch is going to put a bullet between your eyes!
There's no denying your gifts... A well-deserved reputation indeed.
Enough!
Hmph.
Gah! Lucky bastard.
Nay...'tis we who are lucky. Had we fought on, 'twas but a matter of time before our conflict claimed the life of an innocent bystander.
I thought the Heavens' Ward might come here as well.
They came to the Temple Knights' headquarters?
Aye. Ser Grinnaux announced that the lord commander had been imprisoned under suspicion of heresy, and that the Heavens' Ward had been granted full authority in his stead.
Then the Heavens' Ward now commands the Temple Knights...
Those still loyal to Ser Aymeric answer to me. Alas, that amounts to but half our number.
The other half, who opposed his promotion to lord commander, have gathered at the Vault as ordered.
Bolsterin' the guard already, eh? If I didn't know any better, I'd say you're expected.
I take it you're in charge around here?
Hilda, and yes. The young master was just persuadin' me to join his lost cause. Convincin' little beggar, isn't he?
Aye, your passion moved me─a bit. That, and the fact that we're sick of livin' off the leavin's of our “betters.”
If you've a mind to change things around here, then we've a mind to join you!
Let me guess: you're wondering why I chose “the Mongrel,” right?
Because it's what I am, and I'm not ashamed of it. Not anymore.
Besides, even my pureblood pups have more in common with me than the lords and ladies up on high. They none of 'em are well bred. Hells, some of their mothers were cast out after a spot of fun, same as mine.
Story old as time─and one we're sick of hearing, which is why we took up arms.
Not that we mean to hold all the blue bloods to account. Some have done right by us, I'll allow, like them in House Haillenarte.
But enough talk. Your friend's still rotting in a cell. Let's not keep him waiting.
We've been working in secret to undermine the Holy See and the High Houses. That much I'll acknowledge.
But this nonsense about us throwing wide the gates for the heretics is just that: nonsense.
If not you, then who?
You Temple Knights, of course. Reckoned it was your beloved Ser Aymeric's doing at first, but then I heard how he lost his head. My next best guess would be the Heavens' Ward.
That way they'd have the perfect excuse to go door-to-door through the Brume. Slaughter the heretics and their “sympathizers” in one fell swoop.
But the Heavens' Ward's scheme did not account for Lady Iceheart's intervention...and so they have been forced to improvise.
A fine bloody mess, ain't it? But the die is cast. So what's the plan?
We must divert the attention of the High Houses away from the city, and to do that, we need the cooperation of your allies in their service.
...And what makes you think I have friends in high places?
You would be fools not to, given your goals. Lowborn knights are ideal recruits.
Most swore fealty only out of desire for a better life. If offered an opportunity to shed the yoke and live for themselves, who among them would not at least be tempted to take it?
Rare is the man eager to die for a cause he does not hold dear. But it need not come to that this day. If they and their fellow knights are deployed afield to deal with a new threat─a massing of heretics, for example─then they will be unable to join in the defense of the Vault.
Huh. Spread false reports of an attack to get 'em out of harm's way, you mean?
The city will not soon forget the heretics' last assault. If the High Houses believe another attack is imminent, they will have no choice but to act.
Can it be done?
Can we trick them into leaving Ishgard? Aye. Can we keep them out for long? Not bloody likely. Make sure you're ready before I send word, because you won't get a second chance at this.
Then it is decided. To the Vault! The archbishop must be held to account!
And the lord commander granted his liberty!
Hearken to me, everyone! We have two objectives: rescue Ser Aymeric and apprehend the archbishop. We will therefore divide our forces into two parties.
Estinien and I will make ready to breach the underground gaol and search for the lord commander. We will not move, however, until the second party has entered the Vault.
I speak of your party, Warrior of Light, together with Lord Haurchefant and Master Alphinaud. For this plan to succeed, you will need to fight your way into the highest levels of the Vault, even unto the archbishop's private chambers. When the Heavens' Ward realize what you intend, they will fly to their master's side, leaving only a token force to guard the gaol.
Temple Knights loyal to our cause have already secured the entrance to the Vault. Once you are within, they will signal to us. If all goes to plan, we shall rejoin you with Ser Aymeric and confront the archbishop together.
Is everyone clear as to their duties? Then let us do what must needs be done!
