Greetings! Is there something I can help you with?
Ah, Forename! Your earrings are right here. I crafted them myself, I'll have you know. I think you'll be very pleased!
In case Mistress Momodi didn't warn you, the box is locked, and I am not permitted to give you the key. It's a final safeguard, you see─only designated individuals are authorized to distribute the earrings to guests. In this instance, the person in question is none other than Mistress Momodi, so you will need to ask her to open the box on your behalf. Pardon the inconvenience, but the Sultansworn take Her Grace's safety very seriously.
Picked up your earrin's yet, Forename?
Let me just... <gasp> Well, now, looks like the guildmaster outdid herself with this pair!
You'd best take good care of these earrin's! If they fell into the wrong hands, gods only know what might happen!
Now then, I hope you're feelin' sociable, Forename, 'cause you're about to hobnob with Ul'dah's elite! Let me know when you're ready to head to the banquet.
This is it, Forename─your big debut in Ul'dahn high society!
The banquet is bein' held in the Fragrant Chamber. Head over to the Royal Promenade and Bartholomew will show you in. Oh, but be sure to put on your earrin's first, or he'll send you packin'.
Right, well, I reckon that's everythin'. Try not to let all the pomp and ceremony get to you. Just be yourself and you'll be fine!
A banquet hosted by Her Grace the sultana is due to begin shortly. Attendance is by invitation only. Please make way for arriving guests.
We are honored to receive you, milady. Please proceed inside.
All hail the sultana!
Your Grace.
Raubahn.
By right of the Royal House of Ul, I, Nanamo, seventeenth of my line, have summoned you here.
We are graced this day by the presence of a hero to Ul'dah, and dear friend to the crown.
Honored guests, I give you our champion!
And with that, I bid you enjoy the feast.
Not to spoil your appetite, but Ul'dah is hardly so bountiful as this meal would have you believe. While we gorge ourselves, children starve in the streets.
Nor can Her Grace do aught to help them. She is thwarted at every turn by those on the Syndicate who derive their wealth from the workers' poverty.
Beneath her mask of stately serenity, she is aghast at the plight of her subjects.
But there will be no hope for the masses until the crown is restored to power.
I am truly grateful for all you have done for Ul'dah. But there is so much more to do.
That light─what is it?
So bright... Almost like... By the Twelve!
Tell me true─have you been troubled by strange dreams of late? Visions─of the Crystal?
Mayhap you put them down to an excess of aether?
Yes. You are like they were...
Allow me to explain. Before you came to Eorzea, there were others like you who fought the primals.
Though they were not of this land, when the Garlean Empire threatened the realm, they helped bring together the three Grand Companies.
And they stood with us at Carteneau, that fateful day five years ago...
...The day we lost them.
None who survived have forgotten the heroes' sacrifice, nor would any man deny they fought alongside us...
But the names of these heroes come not to our lips. The once-familiar pages of their story are now blank to us.
And in our mind's eye, their faces are naught but silhouettes amid a blinding glare...
It is for this reason that we have come to call them the Warriors of Light.
When I look at you, I cannot help but think of them, and of what you might achieve.
You must protect that crystal at all costs.
It is a gift from Hydaelyn, Mother of all─and one She gave to you for a reason.
Yours is no ordinary tale. If I am right, the fate of the realm may yet hang upon your deeds.
Only heroes and martyrs are fit to bear such a burden. Let us pray you are the former.
Flames, to the fore!
Victory belongs to the bold! Show those imperial whoresons what we're made of!
The left flank buckles! Divert the Barracudas!
Bid 'em hold that position though it cost 'em their lives!
The Yellow Serpents are in need of succor. Pray send the White Wolves to their aid.
The adventurers risk life and limb for our cause. We must not fail them.
Is aught amiss?
No... It is nothing.
Bloody hells!
The barrier won't go down so easily! Eyes forward!
We are being watched...
Raging Bull calling Blood Thorn! Blood Thorn, respond! Respond, damn you!
Arrrgh!!!
Raging Bull! This is Mad Snake! Respond!
Ryder!? This is Raging Bull! What news!?
We're surrounded by a blaze! There's no way out! Gods preserve, what is that thing!?
What's going on!? Speak to me!
Godsdammit! We cannot hold much longer!
AaaaaaAAAAAAAAAH!!!
Mad Snake!? Mad Snaaaaaake! Answer me!
Damn it! Damn it all to the seventh hell!
What of the Barracudas? Can they not be reached?
Sorry, Admiral─shell's not workin'!
What of our own?
I cannot say, my lady! That monstrosity appears to be disrupting our communications!
We must keep trying. Call till they respond.
Yes, my lady!
Admiral, General─we can do no more. We must give the order to withdraw.
I will not forsake Louisoix!
General, please! Victory may belong to the bold, but there will be no victor this day!
You know this to be true. Let us not sacrifice lives in vain.
The adventurers fight bravely, but to no avail. Let them withdraw, and let us be the ones to stand with Louisoix.
Belay previous orders! All Maelstrom units are commanded to fall back, effective immediately!
Give the Foreign Levy priority! Let the main host cover their retreat, and bring up the rear!
Damn it... Relay the order: all Flames are to withdraw.
I don't care if our linkshells are useless!
You still have a working pair of legs, don't you!? Well, use 'em, you bloody half-wit!
The outcome of this battle was long since decided.
Better to retreat now, than risk a massacre.
This dark, stifling presence... Who...or what...?
We go to take our place beside Archon Louisoix! To your positions!
That I should live to behold Bahamut once more...
Magnificent. The eons of imprisonment have only made him hungrier.
I am aware of them. Pay them no mind. They are powerless to act.
It has begun. Soon the planet will regain its true form.
Ahahaha... Ahahahahaha!
How you feelin', Forename?
They said you fainted in the middle of one of the General's stories. I had to have you carried back to the Hourglass.
I reckon you made quite an impression on your fellow guests─though probably not the sort you intended.
You sure you're gettin' enough rest, Forename? The life of an adventurer can be pretty taxin'.
Anyroad, I'm glad to see you're back to normal. No offense, but lookin' after you was gettin' a bit tiresome.
Oh, 'fore I forget, the General left a message for you. Said that when you're feelin' up to it, you should come and see him at the Hall of Flames.
Probably wants to finish the story he was tellin' you when you fell asleep.
I've been waiting for you, Forename. I trust you are fully recovered?
Good, because there is much work to be done─work that I would have you do...
I've been waiting for you, Forename. I trust you are fully recovered?
Good, because there is much work to be done─work that I would have you do...
Listen well, Forename. This will take some time to explain.
I've prepared these letters for my counterparts in the Eorzean Alliance.
Five years ago, we looked on, powerless, as our brothers and sisters were taken from us at Carteneau─first by the Garleans, and then by the thrice-damned primal called forth by their treachery.
Not a day goes by that I do not think of my fallen comrades...
...And of the Warriors of Light, of whom no trace remained.
The tragedies of the Calamity are not so easily forgotten─nor should they be. In remembering all we've lost, we're reminded of what we still have.
And so I mean to mark the fifth anniversary of the Battle of Carteneau with a memorial service honoring the fallen.
It is my hope that my counterparts in the Alliance will agree to do the same.
And I would have you bear my words to them as my personal envoy.
Why you? Because your deeds mark you out as the nearest thing I have to a Warrior of Light. I can think of none more worthy of the role. The question is: will you accept it?
Then it is agreed!
You will journey to Gridania and Limsa Lominsa as my official representative.
Now, that's a great many malms to travel, but I've neither the time nor patience to wait around while you do it on foot.
I hereby grant you permission to use the airship routes connecting the three city-states. This pass serves as proof of your privilege.
Gone are the days when airship travel was available to all.
The ever-present threat of imperial attack has forced us to impose drastic restrictions out of concern for public safety.
These passes are only granted when circumstance demands it─as in this case.
Though there were others who insisted you be granted one regardless.
Aye, Forename, I am not alone in seeing it...
Your potential is plain.
But I have said enough. In the name of the sultana, I bid you go forth.
See for yourself the wonders of the realm for which the Warriors of Light risked all. Rise to your calling and fulfill your promise.
And should your path be barred by man or beast, strike fast and true, for victory belongs to the bold.
Now go, Forename, and heed the Crystal's guidance should you ever lose your way.
Ah! Back from your meetin' with Raubahn, are you? What did the big man have to say?
Is that a fact!?
Personal envoy of the Flame General himself!
So you'll be bearin' the great man's words to the leaders of the Alliance, will you? And by airship! Bugger me...that's an honor and half, that is.
...But I can't think of anyone who deserves it more.
I'm proud of you, Forename. I truly am.
Now, I daresay Raubahn told you this, but not many people get to go on airships, these days. In fact, most folk go to their graves havin' never once seen Eorzea from above...
Poor buggers shuffle off to meet Thal havin' never known the blues of Limsa Lominsa's shimmerin' seas, or the myriad greens of leafy Gridania...
But not you, Forename. You'll see those sights and more, and everywhere you go, you'll find fascinatin' folk with fascinatin' tales to tell.
The people you meet, the places you go─savor these experiences...
For they are priceless, all.
Sayin' that, it'd be remiss of me if I didn't remind you to be careful out there.
Ul'dah ain't the only place beset by troubles, as you'll discover when you visit Limsa and Gridania.
Truth be told, that might well be exactly what the General wants you to realize. I think he knows what kind of woman you are, Forename.
And what kind's that, you ask? Why, the kind that can't resist stickin' her nose in other people's business, of course─and don't you ever go changin'!
Safe travels, Forename! I'll see you when you get back.
