I'll see to your wounds. Just focus on the tribunus!
The pain I have suffered, I shall visit upon you a hundredfold!
You have made me wroth!
Hmph, you're tough, I grant you that.
But I will break you soon enough!
You will not defeat me! You will not!
No... <sob> It's happening...all over again...
Please... I cannot bear it... <sob> Don't take him...away from me...
My lord Gaius!!!
Another poor fool who craved Gaius's affection over all else... May her soul know rest.
'Tis a miracle no harm has come to you, my friend. One for which I will happily give thanks.
And thanks to your fine diversionary work, we've succeeded in bringing down the generator tower─and with it, the magitek field!
The way to the Praetorium now lies open. The only problem is, we can't reach it on foot.
Nay, we'll need to take the Enterprise. I left her at the Ceruleum Processing Plant, so let's regroup there.
This is it, Forename! The final confrontation awaits!
I knew you wouldn't let us down, soldier!
With the Praetorium stripped of its defenses, the way to the Ultima Weapon lies open.
The time is come for the final phase of Operation Archon!
For the final phase of the operation, my Flames will storm Castrum Meridianum and suppress what is left of the imperial garrison. If all goes well, this will allow you to reach the Praetorium unopposed─fit and ready for your encounter with the Ultima Weapon.
Yours is the most dangerous mission of all, but the best must bear the heaviest burden, and you're the best we have. There's not another soul in this realm that could see this deed done, and Merlwyb and Kan-E are of the same mind as me.
Though all hangs on your success, you must not let our plight make you desperate. Victory belongs to the bold, not the reckless. Bards are wont to sing of heroes who valued their life at naught next to honor, love, and liberty, but I tell you now: that which men value at naught, they sell cheap. Risk no more than you must, you hear me?
Now, best you were off─we have work to do, the both of us. See that your preparations are in order, then report to Cid. He awaits you with the Enterprise at the Ceruleum Processing Plant. May Rhalgr grant you strength.
The Enterprise is at your disposal. When you're ready to head for the Praetorium, you need only say the word.
If we succeed in destroying the Ultima Weapon, it will deal a crippling blow to the Empire's hopes of conquest. After that, the XIVth Legion would not dare to move against us─barring the discovery of further Allagan doomsday devices, that is...
Let's be on our way, Forename! Gaius and his plaything await!
So here we are...
The Ultima Weapon will almost certainly be housed in the depths of the complex.
This is it, my friend!
We need but stick to the plan, and all will be well.
We need to make our way down. There ought to be a terminal for the lift up ahead.
Here it is. If you'd care to take the van, I'll follow after I've had a look around.
Gaius!
Ah, Cid, my boy... You are late.
There is something I always meant to tell you, yet the time never seemed right. It concerns your father.
...What of him?
In the winter of his years, Midas came to abhor his part in Meteor. He told me that he wanted nothing more than to wash his hands of the whole sordid business.
But he did not wash his hands of it. He helmed the project until the day it killed him!
Come now, Cid...you must know that he did not have the luxury of choice. By the time he realized his error, it was too late. Meteor had him completely in its thrall.
Shortly before his...transformation, mayhap sensing that something was amiss, your father confided to me all the regrets of his life. Most of them concerned you.
Early on in your career, he realized that while you had a talent for devising armaments, it would never fulfill you. Long before you knew your own mind, he saw that you would be far happier using your knowledge for peaceful purposes, and the thought touched him. He was a changed man for it, though he could not let it show.
You ripped open walls in this place just so you could say this to me!? What is it you want, Gaius!?
I want you at my side, Cid. Take up your father's mantle, and become the Empire's lead engineer. It is your destiny.
My father had a change of heart─you said so yourself! Besides, I have long known my destiny, and I assure you, it lies not with the Empire!
A pity.And what of you, adventurer? Will you not consider making common cause with me?
With your powers joined to mine, we might do much for this realm. Together, we could bring order to Eorzea, and usher in a lasting peace.
No? And I can expect no better answer than this? So be it. It was your strength that made me proffer my hand in friendship, and it is your strength that makes me proffer now my blade. Save as an ally, you are too dangerous to be let to remain.
Run, Cid. Or stay. It makes no matter. You cannot escape the past.
Gaius, wait! ...Damn it!
Brace yourselves─more magitek!
Right, I'll examine the equipment for intelligence. Press on─I'll let you know if I learn anything.
Well, well, would you look at this! It's the armor we borrowed for our mission at Castrum Centri!
This magitek armor should do the job.
If this isn't fate, I don't know what is! Go on, strap yourself in and raise hells!
That bulkhead is composed of a special alloy. Extremely tough. Ordinary fire won't leave a mark, I'm afraid.
You'll need to divert all power to the magitek cannon, as I did at Castrum Meridianum.
The armor's core is like to expire from the strain, but there's no help for it if we want to press on.
Now, listen well. Press...<buzzzzzz>...the control...<fizzzzzz>...engage ancillary...then fire away. Don't mind the warning lights.
You're a natural at this! All right, the way's clear, but it's just you and your own two feet now, so be careful.
You have been leaving a fine mess in your wake, adventurer.
Is someone there!?
Garlond, old friend. How it warms the heart to hear your voice again after all these years.
...Nero? Is that you!?
You sound well. It would seem this savage land agrees with you.
The highest ranking tribunus of the XIVth... It was you all this time?
Tell me, Garlond. How long do you intend to keep all the glory for yourself?
Uh...what? You've lost me.
Don't play the fool with me. Ever since the Academy, I have been condemned to live in your shadow.
By all objective measure, I was the more talented of the two of us, yet that fact counted for naught beside your privileged birth. You were admired as the young prodigy simply because your father was the great Midas nan Garlond!
When you defected, I felt sure my star would finally rise...
But by disappearing, you acquired the status of a legend─your reputed genius gaining credence merely by dint of your absence! Instead of cursing you for a traitor, the people actually came to think of you more fondly! To this day, you are still the young prodigy of magitek!
I, meanwhile, have ever been made to feel second-rate─I who have continued to serve our nation faithfully. Whenever I fail to excel─why, it is only to be expected! Yet when I exceed all reasonable expectations, people proclaim that I walk in the footsteps of the great Cid nan bloody Garlond!
Nero, I...I don't know what to say.
It matters not a whit what I achieve. Your existence has rendered mine worthless. Even Lord van Baelsar saw fit to offer you a place at his side─and this in spite of your betrayal! Did he extend any such offer to me─the man who has remained loyal to him for all these years? Why, no. He did not.
Long have I endured this injustice...but no more.
Lord van Baelsar is in the midst of activating the fully powered Ultima Weapon.
It is my magnum opus─the creation that will win me the recognition I am due. I will not let anyone interfere.
Nero! What are you─!?
Ever since I first set foot in this benighted land, I have watched you─every move you have made, every step you have taken.
You have felled eikons, a feat made possible by the Echo, a peculiar power which shields you from their corrupting influence.
It is of little wonder that my lord has taken an interest in you.
As have I, if truth be told. It is my desire to harness your power for use in the Ultima Weapon.
Should I succeed, Lord van Baelsar will surely take notice! Beside this, Garlond's achievements will be as child's play!
Come, adventurer, and yield to me the secrets of your power!
Blood crimson... A fitting color.
I have taken the liberty of preparing an electrifying stage for you.
I will lay Garlond low, but first I must break you!
Meet one of my creations. You might find it a handful.
<pant> I will not suffer...to be in another's shadow!
This changes...nothing...
Ahahahaha! The Ultima Weapon is activated, and it brims with the power of eikons! Nothing can withstand its might!
Are you all right!?
What of Nero!? ...Fled!? Damn it!
In the instant prior to the blackout, the instruments detected a massive power surge from the deepest chamber.
Gaius is certain to be there! We have no time to waste!
Word arrived from the Alliance a short while ago. It seems the Order of the Twin Adder has completed its blockade of Castrum Centri.
What hands they can spare are hastening this way even as we speak, and likewise for the Maelstrom. All that's left is to destroy the Ultima Weapon!
...I should warn you: the chamber which houses the target appears to be saturated with aetheric energies. There's bound to be heavy interference.
But even if we lose contact, you must go on. Just don't do anything I wouldn't do, all right?
Look for the lift's control panel─it'll be somewhere nearby.
Take the lift down, and you should find yourself in the chamber of the Ultima Weapon.
Keep your eyes peeled─Gaius could be waiting for you down there.
Oh, and don't even think about dying. You're too bloody useful!
The interference is getting worse. I don't think the connection will last much─
Tell me...for whom do you fight?
Hmph! Do you believe in Eorzea?
Eorzea's unity is forged of falsehoods. Its city-states are built on deceit. And its faith is an instrument of deception.
It is naught but a cobweb of lies. To believe in Eorzea is to believe in nothing.
In Eorzea, the beast tribes often summon gods to fight in their stead─though your comrades only rarely respond in kind. Which is strange, is it not?
Are the “Twelve” otherwise engaged? I was given to understand they were your protectors. If you truly believe them your guardians, why do you not repeat the trick that served you so well at Carteneau, and call them down?
They will answer─so long as you lavish them with crystals and gorge them on aether.
Your gods are no different from those of the beasts─eikons every one. Accept but this, and you will see how Eorzea's faith is bleeding the land dry.
Nor is this unknown to your masters. Which prompts the question: why do they cling to these false deities? What drives even men of learning─even the great Louisoix─to grovel at their feet?
The answer? Your masters lack the strength to do otherwise!
For the world of man to mean anything, man must own the world.
To this end, he hath fought ever to raise himself through conflict─to grow rich through conquest.
And when the dust of battle settles, it is ever the strong who dictate the fate of the weak.
Knowing this, but a single path is open to the impotent ruler─that of false worship. A path which leads to enervation and death.
Only a man of power can rightly steer the course of civilization. And in this land of creeping mendacity, that one truth will prove its salvation.
Come, champion of Eorzea, face me! Your defeat shall serve as proof of my readiness to rule!
It is only right that I should take your realm. For none among you has the power to stop me!
This ends here, Black Wolf!
Let us dance, champion of Eorzea.
Know your place!
Impressive! Now it is my turn!
Come, we shall see if you can finish what you have started.
If you will not yield, then you will be destroyed!
Eorzea is mine by right!
That you should still stand... Very well, then!
I had not thought to be so hard-pressed.
Your strength is...most impressive. Such power befits a ruler!
Yet you lack the resolve to put it to proper use. A waste.
Allow me, then, hero, to do that which you will not!
Bear witness to the true power of the Ultima Weapon!
I will tend to your wounds. Now, go─finish this!
The Ultima Weapon has partaken of the power of eikons! None can stand against it!
Kneel to the might below!
The land itself is mine to wield!
Be entombed in earth!
Hear... Feel... Think...
Thy foe is Darkness clad in steel. If thou wouldst triumph, thou must look to the Light.
Thy foe is Darkness clad in steel. If thou wouldst triumph, thou must look to the Light.
The Crystal's Light guides us!
Titan's essence...torn from the Ultima Weapon!?
No matter─it still harbors the might of other eikons!
Yield to the storm!
The wind is at my beck and call!
Naught can pierce the raging tempest!
Once more, crystal bearer. Look to the Light to vanquish the Darkness.
Once more, crystal bearer. Look to the Light to vanquish the Darkness.
Garuda's as well!? Impossible!
But the Ultima Weapon is not spent of eikon power yet!
Succumb to the flames!
So this is the strength of the eikon-slayer...
Very well, let us see how you fare when the Ultima Weapon's power inhibitor is disengaged!
Naught will remain of you but ash!
Yield not to the Darkness, my child. Pray to the Crystal with all thy being.
Yield not to the Darkness, my child. Pray to the Crystal with all thy being.
No! How...how are you doing this!?
But the Ultima Weapon is all-powerful! Why does my enemy still stand!?
Can her strength truly be so great?
It is the blessing of Light that confounds you.
Lahabrea.
Your foe acts under the protection of the Crystal she bears.
So, this is what empowers her.
Beyond mortal limits.
If you are to prevail, the hammer of Darkness must needs be brought to bear upon the shield of Light.
And so it shall, for the Ultima Weapon is host to a power of which you are as yet ignorant.
Speak plainly, Ascian.
The Heart of Sabik. It is the Weapon's core─an enigma whose surface even the vaunted scholars of ancient Allag failed to scratch.
The magic within has lain dormant for eons.
Of what magic do you speak?
A spell without parallel. Ultima.
I sought the life force of the primals for no other reason but to quicken the core. For the true power of the Ultima Weapon lies within its now-beating Heart!
Lahabrea... What have you done?
No more than was necessary...for my god to be reborn.
Damn you, Ascian!
The hour is at hand! Behold but a sliver of my god's power!
And from the deepest pit of the seven hells to the very pinnacle of the heavens, the world shall tremble! Unleash Ultima!
Ahahahahahaha!
Such devastation... This was not my intention...
Oh, Hydaelyn...it seems the task of keeping Your champion alive has exhausted what strength You had left.
Van Baelsar... Your enemy's shield is broken.
The rest I leave to you.
We will speak later, Ascian.
But first, I must deal with you. The question of who is mightier remains!
Come, adventurer! Let us find the answer together!
We settle this once and for all!
I need not the power of eikons to defeat you! Gaze upon true power!
This is most...unexpected. You are possessed of great might, this I will allow.
Yet yours is not the might of a ruler! Such is the difference between us─a difference that will assure my victory!
U-Ultima!? Curse you, Ascian!
How much destruction must be wreaked before you are sated!?
I have not the strength...to shield thee again...
Permit not the manifestation of that vile magick...lest Darkness prevail!
Permit not the manifestation of that vile magick...lest Darkness prevail!
I can feel my strength returning!
No... No, no, NO! Uh!
Heed me... The subjects of a weak ruler must needs look to a higher power for providence...and their dependence comes at a cost to the realm.
The misguided elevate the frail... And the frail lead the people astray.
Unless a man of power wrests control...the cycle will never be broken.
You... You of all people must see the truth in this. You who have the strength to rule...
Pathetic.
You boasted of unrivaled power. You were entrusted with the ultimate weapon. The ultimate magic!
And still you failed. So much for the glory of man.
The growing imbalance afflicting the planet must be redressed.
If it is permitted to worsen, the very laws of existence─both aetheric and physical─will be warped beyond all recognition.
Know you the root of this corruption? Hydaelyn!
Like a parasite, She must be burned out if the planet is to recover.
And naught but the return of the one true god will ensure Her complete excision.
Yet to pave the way for the master's return, a chaotic confluence of untold proportions must needs be brought about. And that will necessitate the presence of the primals.
Needless to say, both you and your Scion accomplices can not be suffered to interfere in this endeavor.
You will not leave this place alive.
It is past time your flame was extinguished...“Bringer of Light.”
For the sake of the star, I will deal with you personally!
Searing flames, cleanse all in the name of the one true god!
Those tainted by Light cannot be suffered to live! Go forth, my shadows!
I will show you true magic! Fires of creation─arise!
You have meddled enough! Farewell, servant of Light!
Hmph. Yours was always a vain struggle.
Surrender not, my child. Look thee to the Light...
And receive of the power to banish the Darkness!
And receive of the power to banish the Darkness!
That You should still have the strength to interfere... Damn You, Hydaelyn!
No matter. Blessing or no, you imperfect beings cannot hope to defeat me!
You are strong, I concede...
Yet know that if I should perish, so too will the mortal within whose flesh I reside.
Mark not the Dark Minion's subtle words. Only Light may banish the Darkness!
If thou wouldst pierce the shadows...make thee a blade of Light.
What!?
The Light...it binds them... They are too many!
Aaaaaaaaarrrgh!!!
And so my conquest ends, Cid.
In smoke and ashes...
Hear... Feel... Think...
Warrior of Light. Beloved daughter.
The Darkness hath fled before the unclosed brilliance of thy spirit.
Yet it lingereth still beyond the sight of men, in forgotten corners of the world.
In the depths of the abyss yet resideth the Dark One, watchful ever.
Till this evil be cast out, never shall the world know aught but a passing peace.
Yet for the present, a gentle light shineth o'er the realm of Eorzea.
With thee at its heart.
From sparkling mote shall it swell to glorious sun, and all the world shall bask in its warmth.
Blessings and joy be upon thee.
Go forth, my child, and be as a beacon of hope for Eorzea and the lands beyond, through all the days of thy life.
