Command has made its decision.
You will not wish to hear this...but the order rejects Nourval's demands. He and his band are to be summarily eliminated.
What!? H-Hold on just a second! You won't even try to negotiate Sanson's release!?
As a nation, we cannot bow to acts of intimidation; I'm afraid negotiation was never an option. And here I must repeat the order for you to relinquish the journal at once.
So what you're saying is, you're abandoning Sanson! You're gonna let him die!
Here's the great Vainchelon, hero to all Gridanians, but you won't even lend an ear to his descendant! Oh no, instead you choose the easy way out! Just kill everyone, even your own man! Wash away the bloody past with more blood!
Just to be clear, I ain't siding with Nourval─there's no excusing his method! But there's no excusing yours either! It's bullshite, that's what it is!
Now, now, pray do not so be so quick to despair, for I was simply relaying the outcome of command's deliberation. A deliberation in which the Elder Seedseer had no part.
As you say, Guydelot, the orders are “bullshite”─not the words I would have chosen, but you speak the truth nonetheless. And I, for one, have no intention of abiding by them.
The decision was largely influenced by a small handful of our leadership, and not the boldest handful, if I may add. 'Tis plain from the fact that they did not think to bring the matter before the Elder Seedseer.
Captain Smyth is a dear comrade; like you, I would spare no aid in any effort to rescue him. And I am pleased to say that we are not alone in this sentiment. As a matter of fact, I have already reached out to my lancer and archer acquaintances, and they stand ready to aid our cause.
Oho, now we're talking! There's still hope for the order if it has good blokes like you, Vorsie!
...I would thank you not to call me that. Now, the order will move as soon as they ascertain the enemy's location, so time is of the essence. Guydelot, pray take word of these developments to Jehantel.
Meanwhile, Sergeant Surname, I need you to bear word to the two guildmasters, Luciane and Ywain.
Tell them that the time is nigh, and pray return here swiftly.
The time is nigh, then? Very well, we shall make ready to depart at once.
When the call came, full many here offered their bows. There is not a soul here who knows not of you and Jehantel and Guydelot. Together, let us rescue Sanson.
