Leave none standing!
Keep them away from the airship!
Savages! You cannot stand against the might of the Empire!
This has gone on long enough!
Annihilate these barbarians! Teach them the futility of resistance!
Biggs!
Wedge! You shouldn't have stayed with the ship!
Th-That was a close one!
Too damn close. So...how's she look, anyway?
The auxiliary propeller is a dead loss, but I think we can wring enough thrust from the main propeller to get us airborne.
A few minor modifications and we should be able to fly the Tiny Bronco home.
While you do your work, we shall keep watch over the perimeter. The enemy may yet be lurking nearby.
As for you, Forename, you have more than done your part today. I bid you return to the Adders' Nest and complete your enlistment.
I pray there will be no further interruptions. When next we meet, let it be as fellow Serpents of the Order!
I, um...just wanted to say sorry...you know, for calling you an imperial spy and all that... Got that one wrong, didn't I!? Ha ha! Seriously, though─if it hadn't been for you and the Twin Adder lads there, we'd be chained up in a dungeon by now. I'm in your debt, friend─we both are.
Wedge!
Thank you! We're very grateful!
Forename! It does my spirit well to see you returned!
Word arrived but moments ago from the team at Nine Ivies. Lest you worry, the two engineers are safely on their way.
The lieutenant informs me that you were instrumental in the mission's success. Had you not found Engineer Biggs when you did, and helped us to rout the Garleans, things might have been very different.
And all this before you were even inducted into the Order! You are well on your way to carving out a fine career for yourself beneath the Twin Adder standard.
But without further ado, let us see to your induction. Twelve willing, there won't be any further interruptions.
Protocol requires that I apprise you of who we are and what we do, after which I will invite you to swear an oath of your own free will. Ahem!
The Order of the Twin Adder is the Grand Company of Gridania.
It brings together the martial, economic, and technological resources of our nation, that we might stand strong in times of direst adversity, when our very survival hangs in the balance.
Our order was formed in the days before the Calamity, in readiness to fight the Garlean Empire, and to combat the beast tribes and their primals. Needless to say, our struggle continues to this day.
Elder Seedseer Kan-E-Senna is the supreme commander of our forces. Under her wise leadership, we protect the people of Gridania and the sanctity of the Twelveswood.
As the entwined serpents that grace our standard, let forestborn strive as one with friends from afar to ensure that peace shall ever reign in Gridania.
In so doing, we honor the will of the elementals, and theirs is the will of the wood.
Now then, Forename Surname, I ask that you give unto us your oath of allegiance, in whatever fashion you see fit.
So you know the words of our Grand Company. That is well. Bound by this common belief, let us strive to preserve all that is good in this great nation.
Uh...quite. Your fervor is duly noted. May it lend you strength as you strive to preserve all that is good in this great nation.
The Elder Seedseer is a kind and gentle soul who holds the welfare of her people above all else. Your faith in her is well placed.
The elementals need not words to know your heart, and there is no doubt in mine own that you will prove a stalwart servant to them.
By the power vested in me, I assign you the rank of serpent private third class.
You are now a woman of the Order of the Twin Adder. Go forth, Private Surname, and do that which brings peace to the Twelveswood and honor to our name.
Can you hear me, Forename? This is Minfilia.
An officer of the Order of the Twin Adder contacted me with news of your enlistment. My congratulations, Private Surname.
I have no doubt that you are eager to make the acquaintance of your new comrades, but I would ask that you pay a visit to your old ones first. Remember: though you are now a Serpent of Gridania, you are no less a Scion! Pray return to the Waking Sands at your earliest convenience. There are some friends here whom I would very much like you to meet. We shall be waiting!
The distant call of a friend in need, perhaps?
As you are needed elsewhere, I shall not keep you any longer. I would, however, suggest speaking with High Serpent Commander Vorsaile Heuloix before you depart. He may provide you with assistance on the journey ahead.
Welcome back, Forename! Lady Minfilia awaits you within.
Welcome back! It seems you wasted no time putting your skills to work!
How do I know? Why, the recruitment officer called to regale me with the tale of your heroics. The pride in his voice was palpable!
We Scions are truly fortunate to have you with us, Forename.
Now, when last we spoke, I said that I wanted you to meet some friends, did I not? Well, I neglected to mention that you have already met.
Tataru─please show them in.
This way, sirs!
Thanks again for getting us out of that mess. We owe you our lives.
But I don't think we've properly introduced ourselves. I'm Biggs.
A-And I'm...I'm...
Gods, man, spit it out, will you!?
W-Wedge, at your service!
I am pleased to say that Biggs and Wedge will be staying with us for a while.
Magitek-driven contraptions such as airships grow ever more vital to the city-states of Eorzea. As a neutral party, it was judged that we Scions should serve as the keepers of this technology.
Of course, for this we needed the knowledge of experts. And so we requested the assistance of Garlond Ironworks, who very kindly sent us two of their finest engineers.
Our happy family continues to grow. On behalf of the Scions, I bid you welcome to the Waking Sands!
Like every soul here, I love Eorzea.
And I count myself blessed to have been given this chance to stand with you all and fight for the future of the realm.
Never have I known such fulfillment─such happiness.
Welcome back, adventurer! I take it General Raubahn's words kindled a fire within you?
Excellent! I feared that the incident with the traitor may have soured your opinion of us. It gladdens me to see that isn't the case.
But before we can count you as one of our own, you must be formally inducted into our ranks.
What? You cannot seriously be considering joining another Grand Company! Why, they are not nearly as grand as ours!
Please proceed to the Hall of Flames on Ul'dah's Merchant Strip and identify yourself to the personnel officer. I will notify him of your coming.
With your strength joined to ours, we shall surely prevail over our enemies, be they beastmen or imperials.
