I pray your meeting with the Elder Seedseer went well, my lady envoy. Correct me if I'm mistaken, but did you not also deliver a message to Admiral Merlwyb Bloefhiswyn of Limsa Lominsa?
While you were there, did you happen to meet Baderon, the proprietor of the Drowning Wench? Gregarious gentleman, always happy to help his fellow man.
Well, I am told that he has a task for a capable adventurer. I know not what the task entails, but I daresay the Flame General's personal envoy would make a fine candidate. If you are interested in learning more, pray speak with Baderon at his establishment.
Welcome to the Drownin' Wench! Sit wherever ye like, lass. I'll be with ye in a─
Hm? Aye, I'm Baderon, all right. Who's askin'?
Ah, 'eard as I've got a job fer a capable 'venturer, ye say? Well, yer bloody right!
Just so yer fairly warned, though, this ain't no job fer the faint of 'eart. Things're liable to get downright bleedin' 'airy. But if ye think yer still interested, let me know, an' I'll fill ye in on the details.
I thank ye fer takin' the time to 'elp me out. Now, I'm sure yer busy, so I'll come straight to the point.
Word 'as it some suspicious-lookin' buggers 'ave been sneakin' in an' out o' the Sastasha Seagrot, an' I need a trustworthy sort to 'ead up north of Aleport an' find out who they are an' what they're up to.
Don't sound like much, I know...
But it weren't so long ago as the fishbacks' pet pirates paid us an unwelcome visit, an' folk are feelin' a bit nervous.
But since that nasty business over in Swiftperch, folk've been a bit uneasy. Well, I say “a bit”... 'Tis all they can do not to soil 'emselves every time the bloody floorboards creak.
If you would permit me, Master Baderon, I should be happy to elaborate.
Well, well, if it ain't the chief Yellowjacket 'imself. To what do I owe this rare honor, Commodore Reyner? Come to make sure me patrons are behavin'─or just thirsty?
Neither, in fact. I was informed that you had requested an adventurer to assist in my investigation, and I came to offer what information I could sift from recent reports.
Neither, in fact. I came to welcome Dietrich back to Limsa Lominsa. It is well you have returned.
Over the course of the past moon, there have been several sightings of an unfamiliar vessel off the coast of Aleport, in the vicinity of the Isles of Umbra.
This information came to my attention no more than a few weeks after a squad of my own soldiers had completed a routine patrol of the region, the Sastasha Seagrot included.
Their search revealed little, save that a family of coeurls had taken up residence in the caves. Nothing to concern us, in short.
In light of recent developments, however, it would seem wise to search Sastasha again.
But with the Sahagin testing our defenses daily, I am loath to assign the task to the limited forces at my disposal. Our line is stretched as it is.
Thus I sought the services of a competent adventurer to conduct an investigation in our stead. Any aid you can offer in this matter would be greatly appreciated.
Then it is settled.
Sastasha is located in western La Noscea. For more detailed instructions on how to reach the place, I suggest you consult V'mellpa. She can be found at the ferry docks on the lower decks.
You 'eard the man! Good luck to ye, lasslad!
