And you are?...Ho, a newly come adventurer. But of course. Yes, I am Seseroga. What can I do for you?
Ah, you would have me teach you the ways of the marketplace? Very wise. As for my fee... What? You expect me to do it for free!? Surely you jest.
My dear adventurer, when you ask an Ul'dahn for a favor, you should at least try to make it worth his while. Judging by your garb, I rather doubt you could afford my services, but the fact you offer nothing is laughable.
Oh. Mistress Momodi instructed you to seek me out, did she? Hmph. Consider yourself fortunate to have such influential friends.
I shall be brief, and you shall be attentive.
You stand in the Sapphire Avenue Exchange, the busiest and most profitable marketplace in the sultanate.
Being advantageously situated in relation to the other city-states, Ul'dah's markets have ever served as both the literal and figurative centers of Eorzean commerce.
All the great overland trade routes lead to our city, and the majority of maritime trade between Vylbrand and Aldenard passes through our ports.
Because of this, countless companies and consortia have chosen Ul'dah as their base of operations. They see to it that this marketplace is awash with merchants and moneylenders, day and night.
Anything a man could ever desire can be purchased here─provided as he has sufficient funds.
Surely there's something you seek, adventurer? A deadlier sword, perhaps, or a shinier trinket? Whatever it is you want, the exchange will have it.
To the north, you will find merchants peddling armor and accessories, curatives and crafting materials.
And to the south, you will find weapons, tools, and an assortment of other useful items for sale.
Seek out a particular merchant, or browse to your heart's content. But do try to remain aloof should you find something that piques your interest. Decisions made in the heat of the moment are usually unwise, especially where coin is concerned.
Ahem. That is all the complimentary aid you shall have from me─and far too much for my taste.
My regards to Momodi. Now, off with you!
How was your tour of the city, Forename? Get lost, did you?
Aye, well, Ul'dah's a big place with lots to see and do─but wanderin' around aimlessly don't pay the bills. If you're serious about makin' a livin' here, you'll need to remember where things are.
So when you go explorin', explore like you've got a purpose, eh?
All right, then! All that's left is for you to work hard, make money, and spend it here at the Quicksand!
Well, younglin', how are you findin' our fine Ul'dah, then? Got your bearin's about you yet?
If so, mayhap it's time you ventured beyond the city walls. The bustlin' streets of Ul'dah are one thing, but the wilds of Thanalan─that's another altogether.
I know a bloke you might fancy speakin' to, and he you. Name of Papashan. You'll find him over at the Ul'dah Dispatch Yard. No doubt he'll have some work for you.
The Dispatch Yard's over in central Thanalan. Just head out the door across the hall and you'll see the Gate of Nald staring right back at you. Pass through it and head east. You'll come upon it 'fore long.
There's dangers beyond the wall, though. More than I'd care to count. Nothin' too terrible, mind you, but feisty enough to attack if you draw near. Don't say nobody cared enough to warn you.
