Calm yourself. We had our own troubles finding a suitable hideaway.
R-Right...
We're finished. Take your prize and leave me out of the rest!
Such hostility. You were hurting for coin, and I offered you gainful employment out of the kindness of my heart.
Kindness!? You brought a blackened tempest upon us!
One look, and I could tell that womanman was a killer. A butcher. A salted devil in the flesh.
Oh, spare me your fearful bleating. Go on! Scamper away now before the scary mercenary comes to claim your head.
Koana told me the news. You've found the abductor, then? What's the situation?
And you think the bandits were hired by this Hoobigo?
Alright, new strategy. Forget Wawkesa and stay on the Mamool Ja's tail. We don't want to endanger the Third Promise, so keep your distance until we're certain they have her.
I'll catch up to you as soon as I'm able.
The foreign champion!?I'm not fighting you!
Hrm?
I'm hearing things...
I'd better hurry if I don't want a beating...
One last precaution...just in case.
Better late than never.
That Mamool Ja─he's the one who kidnapped Wuk Lamat?
So we're still unsure. If we can follow him a bit longer─confirm his connection to the abductors...
That will complicate matters.
...Confound it!
If I set out now, I can trail them along the riverbank.
Do it!
Even if it costs you the contest?
What worth is the throne if I lose my sister to win it!?
Very well, then. I'll send word when I locate her.
Till then, I suggest you save your strength. A rescue attempt could turn ugly.
That Hoobigo just now... I swear I've seen him with Bakool Ja Ja.
Knowing the way that monster works, he probably hired bandits to kidnap her so he could steal her keystones.
But even alone, my sister is more than a match for a gang of untrained ruffians. She must have been ambushed or deceived.
I should have been there! If those bastards have hurt her...
How can I be calm when─!
I do trust him, but—!
And what exactly is that supposed to—!
...Forgive me. Snapping at you won't get my sister back.
I'm afraid I've always been like this when it comes to Lamaty'i. The thought of her being in danger sends me into a panic...
But isn't that how families should be?
These days, Turali Miqo'te live however they please, but the clan into which I was born kept to the nomadic traditions of our ancestors.
They herded their rroneek across the plains, always moving with the seasons...
During one such migration, my birth parents left me behind. A child, all alone. Without a single word of explanation!
A chance encounter with a kind Pelu merchant was the only reason I survived. Taking pity on me, he taught me his trade that I might fend for myself.
I became a stallkeeper in Tuliyollal's markets, and that is where the Dawnservant found and adopted me.
I had already been in the palace some time when Lamaty'i came to join us.
Like me, she had been cast aside by her parents. I knew the pain of solitude, and wanted to spare her that suffering.
As this tiny child's new brother, I swore: I would always be there for her.
...So, as you might now understand, I will stop at nothing to rescue her.
While we await word from Thancred, I suggest we prepare ourselves to travel downriver. You have a boat, yes...?
Why release the punutiy if not to delay pursuit? If we were unsure of their guilt before, then this surely proves it.
Before we act, however, let us regroup with your comrades. Would you mind making the call?
Understood. We'll meet you at Many Fires.
I may have put rescuing Lamaty'i ahead of my own progress, but do not take that to mean I've given up on the contest.
You understand how important she is to me. Yet regardless of how close we were, I would have made this same choice.
After all, if I am incapable of saving my sister while also winning the throne, then I am not fit to inherit our father's heavy mantle.
We need to gather our forces...
Firstly, allow me to brief everyone on our present situation.
...Thus, at the very least, we believe this Hoobigo knows where Lamaty'i has been taken. Thancred is shadowing their boat even as we speak, and I should like to join him with all haste.
Unfortunately, our quarry had the foresight to release your punutiy from its harness, leaving us without a means to give pursuit.
Erenville. As an expert on wildlife, what are our chances of recapturing the beast?
With the right mix of feed, it can be done. I should like an extra hand to help scatter it about, however.
Would you accompany him, Forename?
Meanwhile, the rest of us should work on getting the harness repaired. It appears to have been damaged when the punutiy was let loose...
With all the peddlers here in camp, we should have little trouble purchasing replacement materials. As for any necessary metalwork, Earthenshire's artisans are but a short walk away.
Then let us divide the tasks and have at it.
There was an unusually aggressive herd of wild punutiys downriver, so our girl will have fled in the opposite direction. Come, we'll try the waters upriver.
Assuming our punutiy has come this way, she'll be hiding in the depths of Marsh Ligaka. We'll need to lure her back to the shallows with the promise of food.
Wild punutiys eat mainly aquatic grasses and plants, but the tame ones are often fed vegetable scraps.
Knowing this, I added leftovers to the feed I've prepared. This should help the mixture stand out against the marsh's natural scents.
Ligaka is crawling with predators, however, so I'll leave it to you to scatter feed deeper in. I'll be waiting for you near the shallows with the rest of our punutiy's enticing feast.
Come and let me know once you've scattered the feed.
Come and let me know once you've scattered the feed.
Come and let me know once you've scattered the feed.
All set? I've just finished laying out the last of the bait. Step back out of sight and leave the rest to me.
Here she is.
Shhh, there's nothing to be afraid of. We just need your help one last time.
You're hungry, I wager. Come on, come with me.
Yes, there's a good girl.
We'll be fine here, I think. I'll give her a few more treats, then lead her over to the boat. You can let Koana know we have our punutiy back.
Shhh, everything's alright now. Being alone in a strange river must have been frightening for you...
