Gathering intelligence is another vital aspect of our work. Everkeep's core system is a veritable treasure trove of information. You just need to know how to get in and find it.
We also handle surveillance and communications─watching the enemy's movements and coordinating our own, that sort of thing.
And among all our activities, we spend a fair bit of effort investigating Preservation.
The organization credited with laying the foundations of electrope technology.
From the soul management system to Everkeep's design, they're behind just about everything you see here. It'd be no exaggeration to say they made this realm what it is.
But their magnum opus was without a doubt the power which was used to join Alexandria to Tural: interdimensional fusion.
Said power isn't unlike my summoning technique and the magick within Azem's crystal.
Yet though the effect is localized, to be able to fuse realities... Even with my knowledge, I struggle to conceive how it could be possible!
Incidentally, the founders of our group─a husband and wife─were members of Preservation at one point.
But they opposed the fusing of worlds, and so defected in order to prevent it.
While not entirely unexpected given what we have seen, this is still quite the revelation...
By the by, that's an interesting earring you have there. A novel way of carrying a data storage device.
Oh, you didn't know?
As a precautionary measure against machine infiltration, we scan everyone as they enter. And when we scanned you, we detected a small quantity of electrope.
Though it's been dressed up, that earring is a storage device, and no mistake. Bought it from a shop here, did you?
No, it─it isn't bought, but...inherited.
So these people sent you through the portal along with the earring...
Do you know aught of them?
Listen, Krile. The husband and wife who founded our order...
It's believed that they were Milalla.
Though we have no evidence at present, we can't rule out the possibility that they were your parents, or perhaps close relations.
This I posit because they were the very individuals who spearheaded the research into interdimensional fusion. As traitors to Preservation, they were relentlessly pursued.
If they had a child they feared they couldn't keep safe, entrusting her to the people of another world might've been their best option.
My parents...the founders of Oblivion?
Tell me everything you know about them! No matter how small or seemingly insignificant─anything and everything!
We don't even know their names, I'm afraid. In a bid to elude Preservation's agents, we suspect they erased all trace of themselves.
I'm sorry we couldn't be of more help. If you're interested, though, you're welcome to review our accumulated data.
Yes, please! As an individual and member of my order both, I wish to learn as much as possible.
I should also like to peruse the data. Where the joining of realities is concerned, I may well be of service.
Of course. Feel free to peruse to your heart's content.
Thank you!
If you like, I can examine your earring. I have to say, the prospect that it belonged to our founders has me itching to take a look.
I daresay we have enough eyes to pore over your records. Is there any other way we might be productive?
Hmmm... Not right now. We're still waiting for Zoraal Ja to make the next move.
In that case, Alisaie, would you mind accompanying me?
Gladly.
I buggered it up again!
<sigh> Never a moment's peace... Pay him no mind. I don't.
Oi, you two there. One o' ye give me a hand, would ye? Don't matter who.
...I just remembered I have matters to discuss with Shale.
I feel for you. While Genolt is a brilliant adaptor, it's as if he's stuck on full volume. It's all I can do to put up with the clamor.
By the by...you didn't know him before, did you? Don't see how you could, but for a moment there you were looking at him like you had seen a ghost.
Shale has already extracted the data on the earring. At long last, a clue... My apologies, but I will remain here to review the information.
Seldom does one see Krile so openly impassioned. As her comrade, I will do my best to support her.
...Better you than me.
This place was originally designed by a Preservation engineer. That's why it's wall-to-wall with contraptions.
When I go on the attack, do you think I'm pushing forward too quickly?
A little. Try to keep closer to the rest of us so you don't get surrounded.
Sorry ye had to see me passions spillin' over. Happens when ye put yer heart an' soul into yer craft, ye know?
An' not to be weird or nothin', but I felt a sense o' kinship when I saw ye. As if we've met in another life...
Anyroad! As I was sayin', I need someone to lend me a hand.
I haven't slept fer two nights now─not a single wink─an' I'm ripe to collapse.
Can't afford to, though─got folks relyin' on me, see. But if I'm to keep at it, I need ye to fetch me my favorite energy tonic.
That voucher's good fer two cans─one fer yerself by way o' welcome.
Can't get the stuff at any old vendin' machine, though. Ye need to talk to a bloke named Philomon. You'll find him tendin' a bar out on the main strip. Off ye go, now!
Gah, damn it all! It's such a fine-looking beauty in the blueprint─why doesn't mine look like that!?
