A pleasure to meet you.
I thank you for the warm welcome, and apologize for our sudden intrusion.
I'm Wawlika, stationmaster of Xak Tural Railing.
The recent earthquake has damaged our tracks, and we require timber to make repairs.
This is Forename and Erenville, who have volunteered to assist us with the restoration effort.
<sniff> You've a most curious air about you. Of oil and steel, tanned leather, and the faintest hint of...fair winds blown from a distant shore, though I know not where. I gather you are not from these lands?
<sniff> You've a most curious air about you. Of oil and steel, tanned leather, and the faintest hint of...roses of a most unusual variety. I gather you are not from these lands?
<sniff> You've a most curious air about you. Of oil and steel, tanned leather, and the faintest hint of...fresh fruits, but not of any sort with which I am familiar. I gather you are not from these lands?
<sniff> You've a most curious air about you. Of oil and steel, tanned leather, and the faintest hint of...meadows awash with unfamiliar flora. I gather you are not from these lands?
<sniff> You've a most curious air about you. Of oil and steel, tanned leather, and the faintest hint of...salt and sand of lands unknown. I gather you are not from these lands?
<sniff> You've a most curious air about you. Of oil and steel, tanned leather, and the faintest hint of...tender grass of lands unknown. I gather you are not from these lands?
<sniff> You've a most curious air about you. Of oil and steel, tanned leather, and the faintest hint of...blood-soaked soil of lands unknown. I gather you are not from these lands?
<sniff> You've a most curious air about you. Of oil and steel, tanned leather, and the faintest hint of...pine...but not of the Turali sort. I gather you are not from these lands?
Truly? I would love to know more of you and the lands you have seen...
I am told your people hold your traditions in the highest. Yet I gather you are curious about those of others as well?
But of course. Nature is boundless, as is our love for her lands and her children. The hhetso, in particular, have done much to guide our way of life.
Where to hunt, to gather, to lay our heads─the hhetso teach us all these things and more. It is for that reason, I believe, that we are attuned to the shifting winds around us.
I see... That word, hhetso─it means “leader of souls” in the Hhetsarro tongue, does it not?
It does. There are many creatures revered as hhetso among the Hhetsarro. Here, we look to the rroneek for guidance.
However, as you may have gleaned from our use of aetherytes, while we are committed to our traditions, this does not mean we reject all outside influences.
That said, there are certain things that give us pause...
We will furnish you with the timber you require. But first, as neighbors in this land, we ask that you indulge us in a discussion.
We'd be glad to, of course!
Wonderful. We do not often receive guests come such a long way, and my son is always so delighted to hear their tales. Now, if you'll follow me.
This tent is made with the hide and bones of rroneek. I wonder what else they are used for here.
If they follow the rroneek with the seasons, it makes sense that they would live in tents that can be broken down and transported easily.
Say, do you like to hunt? And what weapons do you like to use?
I will speak frankly. We fear the winds of change will soon bring misfortune to the land.
The rroneek have made the potential for danger plain.
As you may have heard, their temperament has become erratic of late.
A stableman near Hhusatahwi mentioned that. Do you know what has caused this?
We have our suspicions. Since others were drawn to this land by ceruleum, Shaaloani has undergone a transformation.
And the railroads are a part of that...
As strong and resilient as they may seem, rroneek are sensitive creatures. The roar of the train as it thunders through the plains may well cause them distress.
As my father said, we do not necessarily reject outside influences or innovations. But in this, we can't help but worry.
Understandably. I thank you for being forthright.
This matter concerns not only the Hhetsarro, but all of Shaaloani.
Hmm... Perhaps we should bring it to the attention of Vow Koana.
Vow Koana, you say... We know him only through rumors, but he is apparently...how shall I put this?
Hardheaded and aloof. He values technological advancement and efficiency to the detriment of all else.
M-Mind your tongue, Shepetto!
Heh. While there is a grain of truth to the rumors, he is not nearly as bad as they make him out to be.
So in the course of traveling with him, you witnessed him change with your own eyes?
Is that so? As we admittedly have never met him ourselves, perhaps we were too quick to judge his intentions.
Is that so? That is certainly a side of him we weren't aware of.
Forename fought beside Vow Koana in the rite of succession. I'd take herhis word over rumors.
You took part in the rite of succession!?
You're that close to the Dawnservants!? I was grateful for any help, but had no idea I had recruited a bona fide hero.
The succession of Dawnservants filled us with uncertainty for the future, but there is clearly much we do not know.
On this particular occasion, the winds of change are not meant to be feared. No, we must open our hearts and minds that we might see Vow Koana for who he truly is.
Do you think he might visit someday?
Just as his father offered us guidance, I'm hopeful that he will do the same.
Thank you for hearing and allaying our concerns. I'm glad we could speak.
As for your timber, we have freshly cut logs near the lake. Please, take all that you require.
We're terribly grateful!
I promise we'll keep the rroneek foremost in our minds as we continue working on the railroad. And if needs be, we'll seek Vow Koana's counsel.
My thanks again for your time and the timber. We shall endeavor to return the favor.
I hope to see you again soon.
We must talk again soon. Next time, perhaps, on a hunt together.
You'll come back, won't you? There's so much I'd like to know about the lands beyond Tural.
We have to carry all of this back to the station?
We've more than enough timber to fix the ties.
Now we need to transport it to the station─which will be a bit more involved than I thought. I didn't expect we'd be given so much.
Mind waiting here a spell while I round up a few more hands and a rroneek? I won't be long!
I'm glad that went well. And thankfully, it seems we won't need to make several trips for the timber.
While we wait, we could get started moving the timber somewhere more accessible.
It shouldn't take long if we split the work.
What are a few logs compared to the nigh-countless crates of Labyrinthos.
What are a few logs compared to the nigh-countless crates of Labyrinthos.
I should think this will be enough.
That was mighty kind of you to move all that lumber. Sorry we didn't make it back sooner.
We'll see to the rest.
Once we've repaired the tracks, we'll have you on the first train out of town. Ain't that right, chief?
Er... As much as I'd love to make it so, there aren't any spots available.
You'll have to wait for the one after, I'm afraid, but you'll be riding free of charge. It's the least we can do to repay your kindness.
That's fine. Namikka and no few others were here long before we arrived. It's only right they go before us.
I hope you'll stop by and see the train off.
It's a breathtaking sight, let me tell you!
And Nitowikwe will be driving! No engineer compares to her, and it's always a treat to watch her work!
The only work we should be worried about is our own, Shenza. And we've still more to do.
I'll find somewhere quiet near the station to pass the time. If there's anything else in Shaaloani you're keen to see, I'll leave you to it.
My thanks again for your timely assistance. Won't be long now before the tracks are fixed and you're on your way.
We'll handle the rest of the work from here. You just sit tight now!
It'll be good to have the train running again. I missed the sound of her barreling down the tracks.
Had your fill of the sights? Well, they appear to have almost finished...
A glorious, grand machine indeed... I hope Namikka was able to secure a seat.
Here she comes!
Thanks to you, we managed to resume service much faster than anticipated. You have our gratitude.
Ahhh, there's nothing so enchanting as a ceruleum-powered engine in motion!
Ain't that the truth. Don't think I'll ever tire of watching them chugging along. They make wagons look like toys.
And so long as we can lay the tracks, she can go on and on and on. Before you know it, she'll be crossing the entire continent!
Railroads are a somewhat recent addition to Tural. As it stands, we can only ferry folks as far as Yyasulani.
And from an operational standpoint, we still have much to learn. There's always some problem or another to deal with.
But we'll keep working at it. We'll hone our craft and continue expanding till, one day, our trains are running coast-to-coast. That's the ultimate dream.
Goodness, I completely lost track of time. By now, I expect the train will be nearing Yyasulani.
When it returns, we'll see you on your way. So if you've got any preparations to make, you'd better make 'em quick.
Not another one!?
You can't be serious!
Gods have mercy...
What in the flying─ What's happening!?
The train! Nitowikwe and the others!
My home lies that way as well...
We're going to investigate─right now!
What in the world... Are they heading for Tuliyollal!?
Heavens forfend...
You're here! Good, good─they came from the sky and attacked without any warning.
The people need our help!
Hyah!
Can you stand?
Try to remain calm, everyone!
