Did you know Wuk Lamat was taking part in the rite of succession?
Of the Dawn's Promise, I thought it was only Zoraal Ja and Koana. If she has any accomplishments to her name, I've yet to hear them...
Compared to the two Mamool Ja, she pales in martial prowess. And then there's Koana, who's far and away the most educated of the bunch. I hate to say it, but it's hardly a competition.
It's fine. More than anyone, I understand how much better my brothers are than me.
Better? Wuk Lamat, I have never thought of you as the lesser sibling.
Your brothers may excel in their respective ways, but you boast qualities that both lack. A strength that is yours alone. Having cared for you for so long, I should know.
...Thank you, Namikka.
Well, we ought to be on our way.
Yes, hurry along. I await word of your victory with bated breath.
As you just witnessed, Wuk Lamat has no great army of supporters. Not yet, at least.
So Koana, the Second Promise, is intent on developing his country by means of Sharlayan innovations. Given his background, I suppose it should come as no surprise.
That two-head claimant, Bakool Ja Ja, treats everyone around him as lesser beings. No doubt he'd try to elevate the Mamool Ja above other races should he become Dawnservant─not unlike how the Garlean Empire afforded special status to pureblood Garleans.
I know not what drives Zoraal Ja, but it engulfs him like an inferno...
Well, so much for the brief reunion I had in mind. Papa is not one to waste time when he decides to act.
I'm used to it by now, of course, but others are often caught off guard. In any case, we should talk about how we're going to find the city of gold.
All we have to work with are the seven tablets and their connection to the Tuliyollal Saga...
Might I suggest first comparing the tablets against the pillars? We could check for any discrepancies between them.
Good idea. Let's go and take a look!
I wasn't expecting events to progress that quickly, but I won't complain. The contest is the main reason we're here, after all.
I won't give up until we find the golden city. For Wuk Lamat as well as myself.
The preparation of intricately carved tablets for every claimant must have taken considerable effort and forethought. We should consider them weighty reminders that this “contest” is no light-hearted matter.
Hm. At a glance, they seem much the same...
That makes everyone.
Wuk Lamat─the tablets, if you would.
Of course!
Everyone has a tablet? Then let's compare them to their respective pillars. Keep an eye out for even the smallest differences...
Unless I'm missing something, the glyphs appear to be identical.
The only difference being that the tablets have hollows where the keystones are to be fitted.
So now that we've established that the scenes are the same, where do we go from here?
The Dawnservant said we were to retrace the path he walked in uniting Tural's peoples, and that we would encounter seven electors along the way...
Then we have the answer here in front of us: Papa's path is all laid out in the Tuliyollal Saga.
The events the glyphs portray─do we know the exact locations where they took place?
If one is close, we could go there and search for an elector. That would confirm we're on the right track.
Hm, let me think... The Lay of Reeds was in the nearby Hanuhanu settlement.
Papa took me there once. It was during festival season, and the whole village was alive with good cheer.
There's also the Lay of Gold. That one involved the Pelupelu village, which is about the same distance from here.
Before going anywhere, we should ask around about the road ahead.
I heard a lot of talk as we toured the city about that storm we passed through at sea. Apparently it ravaged Yok Tural several days ago.
Since our roads are not as well paved as Eorzea's, they're more susceptible to damage from natural disasters. If we want to avoid wasting time taking a dead-end trail, I suggest we spend a few moments making inquiries.
If it's information we need...
Just leave it to me! I'll bring the information to us!
...It would be prudent to ensure we're prepared for the journey. I'll guide you to the accommodations I've arranged.
