Greetings, good sir. Might I interest you in some Mun-Tuy tonic? A cup a day imbues a man with great vigor, if you take my meaning. Heh heh...
Perhaps another time, friend.
...Wait. That necklace─ You are a shinobi of Doma.
The woman you seek has left Gridania by way of Westshore Pier.
She was attired as a merchant, but these eyes are not so easily deceived.
You may wish to take your search to the East Shroud. Rest assured that we shall continue to support you from the shadows.
Thank the Twelve for the Domans. Were it not for their unique talents, Roaille would have disappeared without a trace.
Our hunt leads us to the East Shroud, Scion. I suggest we follow Roaille's example and take the ferry from Westshore Pier.
You'll doubtless wish to make certain preparations. See to them while I go on ahead. I shall wait for you at Sweetbloom Pier.
This way, my friends.
Your quarry makes for the Hawthorne Hut.
If Roaille is truly the one we seek, we can expect that she means to make contact with her Garlean masters there.
An explanation is in order. You are no doubt aware that the Garleans have their own method of communicating over great distances.
Well, our ingenious friends at Garlond Ironworks have provided us with devices which disrupt these communications, and we have installed them around the city-states. In so doing, we have made it difficult for imperial agents to correspond with their masters.
Roaille would thus have no choice but to rendezvous with her imperial contact directly. Yet, as a well-known face in the Immortal Flames, she cannot move about Thanalan without being recognized. It would only be a matter of time before someone saw through her disguise.
'Tis for this reason, I believe, that she has chosen the Black Shroud for her clandestine meeting. The Elezen are a common sight here, and her comings and goings are not like to turn any heads.
As my scouts tell it, the Garleans have sent agents with a mind to destroy the devices and render such direct contact unnecessary. Fortunately, our shinobi have thus far been successful in rebuffing their efforts.
...This is it. We need only make for Hawthorne's Hut and catch Roaille in the act.
If Roaille was here, she is no more. We have no choice but to continue the pursuit.
My people report that our quarry has departed for the Bramble Patch.
The Ivy returns to the gnarls whence she came... But perhaps it is all for the better.
To convict someone of her standing, we will require damning evidence against her. What could be better than to catch her in the act when she meets with her Garlean masters?
My countrymen and I shall lie in wait in the shadows. Tread warily, my friends.
Just beyond, Roaille is in conversation with an individual clad in the manner of an adventurer. An imperial intermediary, no doubt.
This is it! With me!
Flame Marshal Eline Roaille! You are under arrest for treason and espionage!
