Oi, Grithil, another load's just arrived.
Thirteen planks all told, but one's damaged. It's only good for kindling now.
Right, then. Bring the good ones here, and be sure to let Irvithe know as well.
So, er...how many planks does that make now?
Eh, you're writing down those numbers anyway, right? I'm sure you can work it out.
Eh, you're writing down those numbers anyway, right? I'm sure you can work it out.
Done, are you? So, how many planks did you count?
Eh? That sounds awful low. Reckon you should look at your notes again.
Eh? That sounds awful low. Reckon you should look at your notes again.
Eh? That sounds awful low. Reckon you should look at your notes again.
Hmmm, seems to me you forgot the stacks lying outside. Why don't you take another look at your notes?
Ooh, close. Seems you haven't accounted for the planks that were delivered or thrown out. Might want to check your notes again.
Hmmm, that's on the high side by my reckoning. You sure you subtracted all the planks that weren't good?
Whoa, I don't think we have that many. Reckon you should take another look at your notes.
Aye, that's exactly what I counted!
Thanks for your help, friend. Taking stock fair puts me to sleep, but it has to be done. As promised, I'll give you your lumber. What do you need it for, anyway?
You were serious about the Ladder!? I'll be damned...
If that's the case, please let us help with the work!
We're shipwrights with no ships to build, only shacks. While it's a living, we all itch to do something greater.
This fellow you say is in charge─you reckon he'd mind the likes of us barging in on his project?
Wonderful! I'll round up the lads and lasses and we'll head over to the Ladder─along with all the lumber you need!
Ah, thou art returned. Wert thou able to procure the lumber?
Well, well, to secure not only the material, but the eager cooperation of the shipwrights besides. Their expertise shall greatly avail our efforts.
Master Chai's own efforts have not been without struggle, but he hath proven himself to be a determined soul. I doubt not but that the work shall be complete ere long, and we may continue on our way once more.
Though it hath been years in the making, at long last do the people stand united in defiance of the world's fate, their hopes spurring us ever onward towards journey's end.
Whatsoever may await us, when thou takest those final steps, I pray that it shall be with a smile upon thy face.
For the present, 'twould appear we have matters here well in hand. Perhaps thou shouldst take thine ease for a time? Thou wilt need every onze of thy strength for the trials ahead.
Would you look at that? The citizens of Eulmore engaging in what can only be described as “manual labor.” Who would have thought it possible?
Do you know the most reliable way to deal with those who stubbornly refuse to see reason?
You conquer them─crush them under heel. Such was the trusted method of Allag, and one still favored by Garlemald.
But conquest is the easy part. The true challenge begins once the dust has settled─quenching the glowing embers of animosity and maintaining a semblance of peace.
This requires the conqueror to treat the conquered with dignity, and the conquered to let bygones be bygones. A difficult feat to achieve.
But you have achieved just that...to my considerable surprise.
It's a compliment. Take it.
Ahh, the vibrant energy that fills the air when like-minded souls gather. To think back on that time before time fair brings a tear to the eye.
What? You thought ancient beings like us incapable of crying?
Well, rest assured that if your heart can be broken, then so can mine!
Back when the world was whole, we had family, friends, loves...
Men knew peace and contentment, and with our adamant souls, we could live for an age.
There was no conflict born of want or disparity. Our differences paled into insignificance next to all we had in common.
And then there was Amaurot... Never was a city more magnificent. From the humblest streets to the highest spires, she fairly gleamed...
Not that you would remember any of this.
Never mind.
The point is: the world of old was a far better place than what we have now. I believe you would like it, having witnessed the things you have.
Remember, you are of the Source. Unlike the halfmen here, you stand only to gain.
Should you survive the remaining calamities, you will become our equal. A complete existence in a complete world.
But such talk is a pleasure for later. Back to work, hero.
Ah, there was one thing I had meant to ask.
How well do you know the Exarch? Has he ever deigned to show you what hides beneath the cowl?
What, never? Even to you? How very interesting...
I shall enjoy working out what it means. Until next time.
Ohhh, I knew you could do it, dearest! I never doubted you for a moment!
It's alive.
I don't know if you remember, but when we first met in this world, I was all but spent.
I never thought to wonder why until now.
I think it all just got to be too much.
The guilt of causing the Flood... Knowing everyone hated me... But the worst thing was the solitude.
Time wears you down, aye...but solitude eats away at you. It was this close to finishing me off. But as bad as it got, and as empty as I felt...I can't even begin to imagine what it must be like for Emet-Selch.
All of which is a long way of saying: don't make a choice that leaves you alone. Nothing is worth that─especially not eternity.
Glad tidings, my friend! The Ladder lives again!
The three of us have been invited to do the honors. Are you up for it? Of course, if you're worried that the whole thing might come crashing down, we can always find someone else.
That's the spirit! Come on, then!
We rode the Ladder too, my comrades and I. Once upon a time.
Watched the horizon grow and the town shrink below us...
Awed and terrified in equal measure, we ascended without a word, the silence broken only by the rhythm of the gears.
No one but me remembers that day.
Remembers our journey...and our end. Retread the path─seek and you may yet find...
And here we finally are, at Top Rung.
The others should arrive ere long─
Alphinaud, Forename! Come up here! There's something I need you to see!
What could this be about?
There's a village, Forename. Over to the northeast.
So there is. Yet after two decades without the Ladder in operation, I would not be surprised if such an isolated settlement had long since been abandoned.
Nor I. But that was before I spied someone leave it and proceed to head in our direction, all the while trying to remain unseen...
Whoever this mysterious person is, they should still be out there. Go on and take a look, Forename.
Whoever this mysterious person is, they should still be out there. Go on and take a look, Forename.
Whoever this mysterious person is, they should still be out there. Go on and take a look, Forename.
There's someone, right? And they were spying on us. Personally, I don't feel comfortable not knowing who they are. What do you say we investigate?
I'm curious too, I must admit. And I daresay we have a bit of time ere the others ascend.
It's settled, then. Let's head to the village and see if it's indeed inhabited.
It's settled, then. Let's head to the village and see if it's indeed inhabited.
It's settled, then. Let's head to the village and see if it's indeed inhabited.
It's settled, then. Let's head to the village and see if it's indeed inhabited.
What news, Forename? Were you able to find anything of note?
Indeed. While there's no one to be seen, 'tis plain that this village is anything but abandoned.
Nor I. But while there's no one to be seen, 'tis plain that this village is anything but abandoned.
I don't think so, my friend. While there's no one to be seen, 'tis plain that this village is anything but abandoned.
If the villagers are trying to conceal themselves, they are doing a rather poor job of it. But if they don't wish to be seen, what are we to do?
I say, aren't you the ones who saved my life?
You're Tristol, the artist from Eulmore!
You remembered! Ever since we parted ways, I've worried for you, bound for the city as you were. Never did I imagine that we would meet again, and here of all places!
We could say the very same thing to you, my friend. I'm glad to see you hale and whole. But tell me, what is this village?
This is Amity, a settlement made up of those who survived being exiled from Eulmore.
As I wandered the wilds, I chanced to cross paths with an inhabitant of these parts.
He took me through a secret tunnel which led to the top of the Bright Cliff. I've been here ever since. Life is hard, but we know a semblance of peace.
Well, we did at any rate─until Mt. Gulg broke away from the earth. Then just as suddenly, the Ladder started moving again...
And you feared whoever was coming up would threaten your lives.
Aye... But I see now there's no cause for concern. Will you tell me what has brought you here?
So Vauthry is a sin eater, and he's fled to Mt. Gulg...
'Tis a strange tale, but I have no reason to doubt your words.
I owe you my life. If there is anything I can do to help, you need but say the word.
Your help would be most welcome, Tristol. To begin with, we request your people's permission to reconnoiter the area.
If we are to confront Vauthry, we must find a way to reach Mt. Gulg.
Of course, you hardly need our permission to be here. I will tell the others about you and yours.
Now, we haven't much to offer in the way of hospitality, but our village is at your disposal. Please use it as you see fit in your quest.
Yet another hapless soul that Alphinaud saved from mortal danger, I see. Some things never change.
At any rate, it seems that Brother has a mind to linger. Meanwhile, I have a mind for us to explore.
Forename and I are going to scout out the area. We'll be back in a while.
O-Oh? Very well, then. Just take care out there.
The path diverges. Let's split up so we can cover more ground. I'll go east if you would be so kind as to head west.
We can aim to meet at the foot of the mountain, taking note of what we see along the way. In a short while, then.
You're a sight for sore eyes. I don't know about you, but I bumped into quite a few sin eaters out there.
You too, then. It seems the closer we get to Mt. Gulg, the more of them there are.
Looks a lot bigger from here, doesn't it?
If I were Vauthry, the first thing I'd do is surround myself with as many sin eaters as I could lay my hands on.
And judging by the number we've already faced, his lordship is of the same mind.
This is going to be a tough climb.
But first things first: we need to determine if climbing is even an option. The more I look, the less likely it seems...
Y'shtola is right to be worried, but flying may be our only choice after all.
There you are. Master Alphinaud was afeared you had met with some misfortune.
Urianger! ...And you too, Exarch! What brings you here?
I wish to observe the final struggle with my own eyes.
I arrived at the Bottom Rung too late to accompany you, but I was in time to join Urianger and the others.
Come, let us see how this unfolds.
Well, it seems flying is off the table.
If we have learned that much, then the machina have served their purpose.
Ah, so that's what they were for. Wasteful, but effective.
'Twould seem our foe will not be reached by land or air. We must needs withdraw to consider another course.
Master Alphinaud waiteth for us at Top Rung. Thither should we make our way.
Hm... I didn't expect to see the Chais here. Though I suppose it's well within their rights.
At any rate, it's time to tackle our next little obstacle: finding a way to reach Mt. Gulg.
For this, we'll need to put all our heads together...
...In short, there's no path, and the sky is thick with Vauthry's winged devils.
We might consider amaro, but without extensive training, we cannot hope to contend with the eaters.
Eulmore's airship fleet, meanwhile, consists solely of transport vessels ill-suited for battle. And without the expertise of one such as Cid, we are in no position to attempt a refit.
Oh, it's so frustrating! That wretched mountain should jolly well come back down to earth!
Now, now, dearest. We mustn't disturb these good people at their work.
We've ridden the Ladder and seen the sights. It's past time we took our leave.
The lady may well have the right of it.
Mt. Gulg will not soon come down to earth, nor can we compel it to do so. But if the mountain will not come to the land, mayhap the land may be made to come to the mountain...
...In the form of a Talos. A Talos large enough to reach out and take the volcano in its grasp.
To build such a golem would be an onerous undertaking indeed...yet the principle seemeth sound in itself.
Balderdash! No one has ever made one even half that size!
Leaving aside the small matter of logistics─which, by the way, would be no small matter─the design would need to be unimaginably complex!
Though, I suppose... Hmm... If its only function is to cling to the ruddy mountain, perhaps it needn't be...
A solid base, firmly rooted to the ground─sacrifice mobility to simplify the construction, reducing materials required...
Wait, wait, wait! What am I thinking!? We would still need a veritable army of people to do the work!
Left to the crew that helped down below, it would take decades, if not a nice round century!
So we need more hands. And what sort of things would these hands be required to do?
Oh? Er... Well, er... Well, let's see... First, we'd need people to procure the stone for the chassis.
The rock found near the mountain would suit our purposes well enough. It'd be a simple task to quarry the stuff, but given the stupendous quantity required, we'd need all the help we can get.
We have friends amongst the miners of Amh Araeng. I will go and petition their aid.
While you do that, I'll make for Mord Souq. I'm sure I'll be able to drum up some support.
Then I shall return to Kholusia.
From fishers to carpenters, Eulmore is home to all manner of talented folk. I daresay their skills will avail us.
Is there anything else you need?
Well...yes, actually... Magic. Lots of the stuff. As much as possible. To awaken a Talos of this size would require an entire congregation of mages.
Many among the Night's Blessed are gifted in the arcane arts. I will recruit them to our cause.
The fae folk too, possess surpassing aptitude in magicks. Yet they are not wont to cooperate in the endeavors of men. Leastwise, not without making all manner of mischief.
That being the case, I would instead call upon the people of the Crystarium─with thy permission, Exarch.
We are at your disposal, as are our amaro and chocobos.
I'm sorry─you mean to tell me you can call on not only the people of Eulmore and the Crystarium, but the Night's Blessed, and the Mord, and even those miners!?
But that's just about everyone in bally Norvrandt!
Who are you people!? And how did you come to have so many friends!?
Saviors of the world? Are you being serious? Oh gods, you are...
No import? You expect me to believe that after you just promised me the help of the better part of the world!?
Oh dearest, have you forgotten already? Alphinaud told us that when we first met.
Um, actually, that may not have been... Never mind...
So, as you can see, you will not want for bodies. I trust you will have your design ready in good time for their arrival.
Norvrandt is counting on you...heir to Daedalus Stoneworks.
We'll be back as soon as we can─and we'll bring the whole world with us.
...I take it we will be assisting Master Chai. Though I am quite sure he has everything under control...
Have the design ready, she says! In good time, she says! Does she even understand what's involved!?
Before I can even attempt to design anything, I need intimate knowledge of the land─the knowledge of locals. Last I heard, no one lives here!
What? A village of Eulmoran exiles!?
B-But...those people have every reason to loathe a free citizen like me! They couldn't possibly be willing to cooperate!
<sob> This will never work. Never. I never should've fixed that ruddy lift. Never should've ridden it up here... Never should've...never should've...
Oh dear, darling appears to have lost the plot...
But he has it in him, Forename. He's the cleverest man I know─he just wants for confidence sometimes. If you were to give him some words of encouragement, I'm sure he can give you your Talos.
A bit of advice I learned from his mother: he responds poorly to obvious praise. You'll need to find another way to stoke the fires of his motivation─awaken his sense of daring!
A bit of advice I learned from his mother: he responds poorly to obvious praise. You'll need to find another way to stoke the fires of his motivation─awaken his sense of daring!
I can't do it. No one can. A Talos of that size...no one's even dreamed of it.
He did? But...he's such a capable lad, brimming with confidence.
Hmmm... I suppose even the most capable among us have struggles to overcome...
Hmmm... I suppose even the most capable among us have struggles to overcome...
But regardless of my own feelings, I can't do a damn thing without help from those villagers...and they're not bally likely to give it!
I know, I know! You hardly need to tell me that! Do you think I'd disappoint her if I could help it!?
I know, I know! You hardly need to tell me that! Do you think I'd disappoint her if I could help it!?
But regardless of my own feelings, I can't do a damn thing without help from those villagers...and they're not bally likely to give it!
Oh, it's simple as that, is it? You say some magic words and I can suddenly do the impossible? Don't make me laugh!
Oh, it's simple as that, is it? You say some magic words and I can suddenly do the impossible? Don't make me laugh!
As I said, I can't do a damn thing without help from those villagers...and they're not bally likely to give it!
Tristol's among them, you said so yourself! Lest you've forgotten, we essentially sent him to his death! Even if the others don't bear a personal grudge, he would never forgive us!
Hmmm... If you were there too, perhaps he'd be more willing to accept an apology...
W-Wait... What am I thinking, relying on others to fight my battles? It's disgraceful, is what it is, and it might even make things worse...
W-Wait... What am I thinking, relying on others to fight my battles? It's disgraceful, is what it is, and it might even make things worse...
W-Wait... What am I thinking, relying on others to fight my battles? It's disgraceful, is what it is, and it might even make things worse...
And in the end it's not even a question of forgiveness. Building such an enormous Talos is impossible, and no amount of contrition will change that!
How can you make such blithe claims without proof? You're either naive or you think I am─and I most certainly am not!
How can you make such blithe claims without proof? You're either naive or you think I am─and I most certainly am not!
How can you make such blithe claims without proof? You're either naive or you think I am─and I most certainly am not!
And whatever you say, in the end it's not even a question of forgiveness. Building such an enormous Talos is impossible, and no amount of contrition will change that!
I know, I know... Unless we take the first step, there can never be reconciliation.
This is a chance for everyone to come together. Even if they hurled stones at me, perhaps it's worth trying to apologize...
This is a chance for everyone to come together. Even if they hurled stones at me, perhaps it's worth trying to apologize...
This is a chance for everyone to come together. Even if they hurled stones at me, perhaps it's worth trying to apologize...
But what then? In the end it's not even a question of forgiveness. Building such an enormous Talos is impossible, and no amount of contrition will change that.
And even if by some miracle the people of Amity were willing to let bygones be bygones, they'd think that the plan is absurd! I think it's absurd!
Well, I can't argue with that logic... Enormous as the task is, it's simply a matter of finding a solution to a practical problem. From that perspective, it's not entirely unrealistic.
Well, I can't argue with that logic... Enormous as the task is, it's simply a matter of finding a solution to a practical problem. From that perspective, it's not entirely unrealistic.
Well, I can't argue with that logic... Enormous as the task is, it's simply a matter of finding a solution to a practical problem. From that perspective, it's not entirely unrealistic.
Well, I can't argue with that logic... Enormous as the task is, it's simply a matter of finding a solution to a practical problem. From that perspective, it's not entirely unrealistic.
But realistic or no, there's no guarantee of success. There are risks to consider should the venture fail.
Well now, to flood the very castle you sought to reclaim... Such a strategy could indeed be considered absurd. Yet you succeeded not in spite of, but because of it.
Our own strategy may likewise seem absurd, but maybe─just maybe it stands a better chance of success for it...
Our own strategy may likewise seem absurd, but maybe─just maybe it stands a better chance of success for it...
Our own strategy may likewise seem absurd, but maybe─just maybe it stands a better chance of success for it...
But be that as it may, there are risks to consider should the venture fail.
I've no idea where that absolute confidence of yours comes from, but it only makes me feel more wary!
I've no idea where that absolute confidence of yours comes from, but it only makes me feel more wary!
I've no idea where that absolute confidence of yours comes from, but it only makes me feel more wary!
And even assuming there's a semblance of realism to the plan, have you considered the risks should the venture fail?
And even assuming there's a semblance of realism to the plan, have you considered the risks should the venture fail?
And even assuming there's a semblance of realism to the plan, have you considered the risks should the venture fail?
Aye, imagine for a moment that we fail to reach Vauthry and only succeed in provoking him. In his fury, he may well unleash his hordes of eaters and we'll meet a horrible end!
Oh, so I can die with you!? How very kind of you to offer! But if it's all the same, I'd rather keep on living!
Oh, so I can die with you!? How very kind of you to offer! But if it's all the same, I'd rather keep on living!
Oh, so I can die with you!? How very kind of you to offer! But if it's all the same, I'd rather keep on living!
<sigh> How can you remain so...so optimistic throughout all this? It's downright tiring...
<sigh> How can you remain so...so optimistic throughout all this? It's downright tiring...
<sigh> How can you remain so...so optimistic throughout all this? It's downright tiring...
<sigh> How can you remain so...so optimistic throughout all this? It's downright tiring...
<sigh> How can you remain so...so optimistic throughout all this? It's downright tiring...
<gasp>
I-I see what you did there. That's how you win over the masses─with that irrepressible aura of dependability.
But very well, you've made your conviction clear...and I'm assured in spite of myself. I won't let my fears get the better of me. It's unseemly if nothing else.
But very well, you've made your conviction clear...and I'm assured in spite of myself. I won't let my fears get the better of me. It's unseemly if nothing else.
Still, I find it astounding that you can have such certainty given the circumstances.
Still, I find it astounding that you can have such certainty given the circumstances.
I've thought of that, I assure you, but I'm afraid Talos cannot contend with sin eaters. If they could, I would never have come to Eulmore.
Nonetheless, I appreciate your earnest attempt to find a solution.
Nonetheless, I appreciate your earnest attempt to find a solution.
It makes me wonder, what is it that drives you?
It makes me wonder, what is it that drives you?
Tell me, why did you throw yourself into the midst of such a grueling struggle?
...!
Indeed... What else could compel us to face such dangers? I too have someone I wish to protect, with whom I want to live out my days in peace...
Indeed... What else could compel us to face such dangers? I too have someone I wish to protect, with whom I want to live out my days in peace...
Adventure... Such a strange word coming from my lips... I used to have a sense of adventure too. Strove to challenge myself. Whenever did I lose it?
Adventure... Such a strange word coming from my lips... I used to have a sense of adventure too. Strove to challenge myself. Whenever did I lose it?
Adventure... Such a strange word coming from my lips... I used to have a sense of adventure too. Strove to challenge myself. Whenever did I lose it?
So you do not fight willingly. Just like me. We may put on a smile, but behind it there's only doubt. If even your heart isn't in it, there's no hope for any of us. No point in building the Talos.
So you do not fight willingly. Just like me. We may put on a smile, but behind it there's only doubt. If even your heart isn't in it, there's no hope for any of us. No point in building the Talos.
Yes... Yes! By the gods, I can do this! I just need to have a little faith in myself!
Right, let's head to Amity and speak with the villagers─with Tristol.
My love, things are liable to become more dangerous. I want you to wait for me back in Eulmore.
No. Wherever you go, I'm going too.
Besides...you're not the only one who has to apologize.
B-But there's no telling what may happen out here! I don't know if I can keep you safe!
P-Perhaps this is a bad idea after all... I-I don't think I have what it takes...
Master Chai. That you are beset with doubt is proof that you can envision the task ahead.
And that which man can envision, he can make reality. Thus did some old friends of mine once say.
Even should it be a feat fit for the divine, if something has been done before, then it most assuredly can be done again by our own hands.
That's a little idealistic, don't you think!?
Perhaps, Master Chai, perhaps. But what is man if not an idealistic creature?
'Tis not an easy thing to achieve one's dreams─my friends can attest to that. Countless times did they meet with frustration in the course of their endeavors.
None would have found fault with them had they given up, yet they never did. One step after the next, they forged on towards their goals.
And for their determination, they accomplished numerous feats that many believed lay beyond the reach of mankind.
Like them, you are a man of science. Amidst your doubts, surely there is a spark of desire. The desire to make the impossible possible.
Come, darling. Like the old days, I would be the first to see your Talos.
And you shall be, my dear. I would have none other at my side when my greatest masterpiece awakens.
Right, then. To Amity.
I am glad my words struck a chord. Shall we?
Y-You!
You have every right to be angry with us. But please listen to what I have to say.
I am tasked with delivering these people to Mt. Gulg─by means of a Talos of heretofore unseen proportions.
However, I cannot do this without the cooperation of those with intimate knowledge of this land. That is, you and your fellow villagers.
...Cooperation? After you ignored my desperate pleas and cast me out, you have the gall to come here and ask for my cooperation?
You've every right to be upset. Vauthry's not the one to blame for your suffering─we are.
We were free citizens without a care in the world, indifferent to the hardship of others. We didn't know what would become of you, and frankly, we didn't care.
But we know now that what we did to you─to full many─was wrong. Terribly wrong. No words will suffice to make amends, but I want you to know that we are deeply sorry.
I'm not sure how I feel.
Should I forgive you? Hate you? Perhaps it's not even my place to judge. After all, I sought a place in your city. I wanted to be you, once...
But one thing is clear to me.
All of that is in the past. And we mustn't let past wrongs stand in the way of a brighter future.
And so...I will cooperate with you. Please see our friends to Mt. Gulg.
You have my word!
I'll set to work on the design at once. Wouldn't do to have nothing to show the others when they return with help.
Make no mistake, this venture is unprecedented in the history of Talos building─nay, the history of all mankind! But rest assured this genius of Daedalus Stoneworks will deliver!
Ah, wicked white!
Is there a problem?
Well...er, you see... I've been promised people to procure the stone as well as imbue magic.
When I was put on the spot earlier, I thought that was all we required.
But I forgot about one rather important item needed to bring a Talos to life...
That's right, the heart! I'm pleased to see you have some familiarity with Talos!
The heart! The godsdamned, bally heart! Without one, a Talos is just a hunk of rock!
So, while I work on the design, I'd be much obliged if you could see to procuring the ore with which to fashion a heart.
A heart suitable of bringing to life a Talos that shall embrace the very firmament!
If you seek material for the Talos's heart, I know people who may be able to assist.
They are the Tholls, a dwarven family that have long mined this land. No one knows its bounty as well as they.
If you explain your situation, I'm sure they would be willing to cooperate. Indeed, 'twas one of them that showed me the secret tunnel to the top of the cliff.
You will find the Tholls at their village to the northwest, a place called Tomra. When you arrive, seek an audience with Chief Xamott...and do not forget to greet him with a hearty lali-ho!
Permit me to join you, Forename. I would keep my joints limber, and mayhap I can provide some manner of assistance.
I'll leave the heart to the two of you, then. The variety of ore doesn't matter so long as it's rich with aether.
I'll aim to have my design complete by your return.
So this is Tomra...
Seldom do we see the dwarven folk at the Crystarium. To now be in the presence of so many...
I shall enjoy not having to crane my neck for a change.
