...
Oh! This creation is perfect!
But...I don't remember seeing it before. Perhaps it's new?
Anyway, I'll try reading its mind. That's my power!
Hmmm... I can't read it. Or maybe...there's nothing to read?
Wait... Please, wait... I'll try again. With you this time...
Greetings! Can you hear me?
This is my power. I can read the emotions of those around me, and project my emotions to others in return.
I am not actually speaking to you in your mind. Rather, you are converting my emotions into words and intention─a process performed subconsciously by intelligent life-forms.
This ability is vital to my mission, for it allows me to interact with intelligent beings even should they communicate via unknown languages or other nonverbal means.
As a consequence, I am clumsy at speaking...
Yet though I struggle to express myself in this fashion, Hermes wants me to speak as much as possible, for everyone has thoughts and feelings that they may wish to hide...
I harbor an affection for you. One that is difficult to define.
Aside from the fact that you share common traits with us, your thoughts are complex. Prismatic. They draw me in, and leave me wanting to know more.
Out of respect for your privacy, I will refrain from using my power when speaking with you. Nevertheless, I want you to know that I wish to be your friend.
Did you...hear me?
Heh heh, good! Now it's my turn again! So...what are you good at?
Ooh, fighting! That must mean you're strong!
Hermes is strong too. But he doesn't like to fight. Even when creations fight him.
Oh, not creating...but crafting? Putting things together with your hands...
That sounds like fun! I can't use creation magicks. But maybe I can learn to craft!
Ooh, gathering! I like gathering too!
What do you gather? Where do you go? How do you get there? Do you fly too!?
Playing? I'm still not sure what that means...
Hermes says, “Let's play.” But then he goes for a walk. Or looks at creations. It's fun, but no different from work.
Ooh, a secret! That's something you want to hide! Just leave it to me...
There! I've blocked it out. I can't block everything—not strong feelings. But that wasn't too strong.
I-I think we might be bothering it...
Let's keep going. We'll go and see Euanthe next. She's usually in a small building. One on the west row.
...
