This is Papalymo. We found the culprit. It was an Ixali chieftain. Yes, we'll seek Brother E-Sumi-Yan's cooperation in the matter. Yda? Oh, loud, tactless, much the same as always.
How are we feeling, then? Better? Good!
Giant crystals? Can't say I've seen any... Are you sure you're feeling better?
...Understood. Over and out.
Kuplo Kopp. Please bear word of these developments to Brother E-Sumi-Yan. We shall soon return to give a full report.
Understood! Over and out, kupo!
Here is where we part ways. Till next time, take care!
I think that sword might be a clue! You should definitely pull it out and take it back to the Bannock!
You don't suppose that adventurer could see Kuplo Kopp, do you!?
And this occurs to you NOW!?
Yes. It seemed that way. Time will tell...
Well, time will have to, because you won't! You never tell me what's really going on! Unless...you don't know what's going on either!
Bah! You'd like that, wouldn't you!?
Forename! It is good to see you back!
One of our patrols sent word that you had been spotted doing battle with enraged treants. I am relieved to find you none the worse for the experience.
But tell me, what were you able to discover at Lifemend Stump?
A sword in the stump, and a dead Ixal? Hmmm...
I can say with absolute certainty that this blade is of Ixali origin. It is of a kind used exclusively in the beastmen's rituals.
The Ixal rarely set foot in the Central Shroud, so tight is our guard over the area. What purpose could have driven them to take such a risk? I fear something is afoot...
What's that? A dubious couple sporting peculiar spectacles? Hah hah hah!
So you have finally been acquainted with Yda and Papalymo! Lay your suspicions to rest─Gridania counts them among her staunchest allies. Both are scholars hailing from a distant land, and have been with us since before the Calamity.
Their garb may appear outlandish, and their exchanges baffling, but never once have they given us cause to doubt them.
Indeed, they often assist the Gods' Quiver and the Wood Wailers in their work─much as I hope you will in the days to come, Forename.
Although our unknown visitor eludes us still, owing to your efforts, we have acquired important intelligence on the Ixali threat. You have my gratitude.
We are fortunate indeed to have a capable adventurer such as you aiding us. I pray you will continue to serve the people of Gridania in whatever capacity you are able.
Forename, injuries to several of my men have left me shorthanded, and I require a capable sort to complete their unfinished duty.
The task is simple: put down as many of the local chigoe population as necessary to acquire three of their egg sacs.
Having done so, you are to deliver them to Monranguin at Gilbert's Spire. He will answer any queries you might have. Now, I have other business to attend to.
