Well, he's certainly adorable...but what's a “ryu”? And why do you have him dressed up in that costume?
An excellent question! You see, we wished to present the charms of the chocobo and the ryu in a lovable package. Just look at him waggle his scaly little tail─it's an exquisite combination, you must agree!
And it would be remiss of me not to mention the craftsmanship that went into the outfit. Our weavers spared no effort to evoke the might and majesty of the ryu in the diminutive form before you. The finished product is simply divine, is it not!?
Um...I suppose? I still don't know what a ryu is...but never mind. Thank you for letting me play with him.
<sigh> Yet again I failed to convey the virtues of our mascot...
...You come at the ryu metsuke's behest!? I should be most grateful for your aid, adventurer!
I seek only to share our mascots' charms with the people of Eorzea, but my every attempt has ended in failure, as you've just witnessed...
Try as I might, I cannot see what I am doing wrong. If you have any advice─anything at all─I would be most eager to hear it.
Other things... It was my intent to have our mascots be the highlight of Heavensturn. You believe this is not enough?
Talk about the ryu, you say... Rather than tediously explaining tradition, I had hoped to initiate the people through our mascots. You believe this is not enough?
Hmmm, it might avail me to speak with that young girl as well. Let her gaze upon Ryunosuke once more, and─
...Oh? Wherever did our little mascot go?
Followed after the girl, you say!?
We must find him, and quickly!
Please, adventurer, will you not help with the search?
Thank you! Now then, I believe the girl set off in the direction of the tavern─the Drowning Wench, was it? If we find her, I daresay we will find Ryunosuke.
Whatever it is the ryu bugyo is doing fails to speak to the locals. Please, help her find a way to win them over.
Ah, thank goodness you're here! I've been asking this guardswoman about the girl, but I am struggling to make myself understood...
