That's enough. Shut your gobs and turn around. Slowly.
I'm Sicard, actin' captain of the Bloody Executioners.
No need to introduce yourselves. We know who you are...Scions.
And we also know you've been chattin' to the Admiral. Got eyes and ears everywhere, see. Comes with bein' the only true pirate crew left in Limsa.
So we've established you ain't here to buy crystals. The question is: what are you here for?
You are bold to reveal yourself to us without knowing our objective. But that would explain your swift rise to power.
You have spoken plain, and so I shall return the favor. We came here to learn why the Bloody Executioners oppose the Admiral's will.
And we have our answer. Should Limsa Lominsa make peace with the kobolds, you would lose the source of your newfound wealth.
That's right. Just to remind you, though, we ain't breakin' any rules here.
The law forbids us from attackin' any vessel not flyin' the imperial flag, but it don't say nothin' about beastmen.
Only reason we keep our operation nice and quiet's 'cause we don't want no one takin' our business.
Wait. Just listen to the end, will you? For what it's worth, I have the highest respect for you and yours─her especially.
While the Maelstrom were worryin' about dirtyin' their fancy red clobber, you lot stormed U'Ghamaro and battered bleedin' Titan himself. Raised a mug to you when I heard the news!
And now we're followin' in your footsteps, makin' sure the beastmen never summon their stinkin' gods again. Practically your successors, we are.
When there were still imperial ships about, we did our bit for Limsa and went after 'em. But with the Garleans gone, there's no one left to ply our trade on 'cept the beastmen. So let us have that, eh? It's only fair.
...Contentious though some may find your views, it is true that you have broken no laws.
That being so, I see no reason why you should not state your case directly to the Admiral's face. Unless the acting captain of the only true pirate crew left in Limsa Lominsa has some other cause to hide in a cave?
Hmph. Well said. Well said indeed...
All right. I'll meet with the Admiral. I'll even provide the venue─the Astalicia. I trust she won't turn down the invitation.
I thought myself the hunter, but it turns out I was the prey... A timely reminder that the pirate powers of Limsa Lominsa are not to be trifled with.
But all's well that ends well. G'raha Tia's timely provocation had the desired effect, and Sicard has agreed to a meeting. Let us hurry back to Limsa Lominsa and pass on his invitation to the Admiral.
Forename, your companions have already reported to the command room. Will you be joining them?
Welcome back, my friends. What news?
So they have been stealing crystals from the kobolds...
My thanks for solving the mystery, and securing a meeting besides.
Suffice to say, I accept Sicard's invitation. And I would have you join me as my guests.
The future of Limsa hangs upon the outcome of this meeting, and I would have the Scions present to bear witness.
