"Mind your surroundings“? That is rich, coming from you.
Your every movement is wasteful, adventurer.
Your back is crooked, and your elbows misaligned. It takes you an age to prime your bow, and twice as long to loose an arrow.
In summary, you fail on all counts. You have no talent as an archer─none whatsoever.
I shall say it plain, Luciane: this woman is not fit to wield a bow. For our sake─and hers─we should revoke her membership.
As I've always said, outsiders can scarce be expected to understand─never mind master─our noble art.
We waste our breath trying to teach her like.
...Well! Allow me to introduce you to Silvairre, our comrade at the butts.
The fellow was once of the Gods' Quiver, you see, and he can be a little...opinionated when it comes to archery. Oh, but you mustn't pay him any heed─he's like that to everyone.
You'd be lucky to get much sense out of a fossil-brained Wildwood Elezen like him at the best of times. With them, it's always “Twelveswood this” and “elementals that,” and─ Oh! Ahem!...No offense intended, Luciane.
None taken, Leih. I know full well that some of my kind can be prideful to excess and intolerant of other races.
Although people may behold the same object, ever will they see different things. There is no right or wrong to it, for it is a question of perspective.
What matters is the perspective we choose to adopt.
You are possessed of bright eyes, Forename─eyes that bespeak great understanding. They shan't lead you astray, so trust to them, and to what they see.
Go now and resume your training. I look forward to marking your progress when next we meet.
It pleases me to see how you have grown as an archer. Plainly, you have taken my counsel to heart and learned to see with your own eyes.
I would now have you discover what it means to behold things from a different standpoint.
You will recall Leih Aliapoh, one of your seniors at the guild. I have given you over to her care for this lesson. Speak with her and do as she bids.
I've been expecting you, Forename. Shall we get on with it, then?
First, a quick review. Remember how the bowmaster had you seek out and destroy targets hidden throughout the city?
Well, I would have you do the same. This time, however, you will need to venture outside the gates.
I'm sure you've realized this by now, but there is no guarantee of safety within the Twelveswood. As you search, you should take care to mind your surroundings.
You won't have the luxury of focusing solely on your quarry this time─you'll have to keep your eyes peeled for potential threats as well.
That said, your objective is to destroy the targets alone, so avoid unnecessary combat and maintain a safe distance from any hostile creatures you encounter. Should you come under attack, take to your heels, risking direct confrontation only if you can't outrun your pursuers.
The targets are hidden in the Central Shroud. As before, use the Heavy Shot technique to destroy each one with a single arrow. Go well, Forename.
Well, well! You made short work of those targets, I must say. It seems you've learned to seek your prey without being preyed upon.
Let's continue then. I've a mind to give you more practical experience, and we received a request just recently which I think will provide the perfect opportunity...
It seems tree slugs and vultures have been congregating in ever-increasing numbers in the vicinity of the Honey Yard, causing no end of trouble for the locals. We have been tasked with culling the beasts.
This request comes direct from Stillglade Fane. When the Wood Wailers and the Gods' Quiver cannot spare the forces to attend to such matters, the conjurers often turn to us for help. And before you ask, there's good reason why they would rather not see to this particular task themselves.
The creatures in question possess abilities which can cause problems for the magically inclined. But that's quite enough about conjurers' troubles! Luciane taught you how to discern an enemy's key traits, did she not? Well, now you'll need to do so while maintaining situational awareness, lest you be overrun.
Consider this a comprehensive review of her lessons and mine own. Your orders are as follows: head out into the East Shroud, and there put down eight tree slugs and eight vultures, using all of your skills as an archer. Good hunting, Forename.
Judging by your smug expression, I'd say you've acquired a feel for maneuvering to exploit enemy weaknesses whilst covering your own.
Vultures are wont to keep their opponents at wing's length, and their attacks will send you flying. The solution to this is simple: maneuver to the rear.
Tree slugs, on the other hand, have an annoying knack of disrupting spellcasting with their secretions. As such, you would do well to keep the creatures away from any mages in your party.
Needless to say, good positioning is the key to success in battle─which is why it is absolutely essential that you know your target's traits.
The knowing of these traits is a fundamental part of hunting. Before the Keepers of the Moon conceived of archery, they dwelt not in the city, but the forest. For my people, hunting was a way of life.
Hmmm... In hindsight, I suppose this was more a lesson on hunting than on archery. Luciane knows well my past, so mayhap this was her intent.
Hunting, too, is an art. Before I came to Gridania, I never gave it much thought. But the more I think of home, the more I begin to realize...
Ahem! Forgive me, I'm not usually given to fits of sentiment. Truly. Forget I said anything.
But do not forget that a hunter must recognize her prey's weakness and strike swiftly when the opportunity presents itself.
That concludes the lesson. Now, I suggest you pay Luciane a visit─she is doubtless eager to hear from you.
It is good to see you, Forename. I hope you have learned much from Leih.
You, adventurer! Is it true? Are you the one who slew the tree slugs and vultures?
Do not take me for a fool. You cannot conceal the truth from this archer's eye.
How dare she entrust the security of our people to the hands of a stranger! I knew Miqo'te were reckless, but she is downright irresponsible! Shame on her!
Did I not warn you that it was folly to suffer that woman's presence in our guild, Luciane? Every time she wastes an arrow on game, she drags our noble art back into the darkness.
Aye, and this girl, too. She is an embarrassment to us all!
That is quite enough, Silvairre.
Your skill with the bow is undeniable, as is your love for our nation. Yet there is much and more you have yet to learn about archery.
Forename has matured greatly in the short time that she has been with us. You know this to be true.
...
I suggest you come to terms with Forename's presence here─you will be giving her her next lesson, after all. Unless of course you have any objections? Good.
As for you, Forename─I would have you devote yourself wholly to training ahead of your lesson with Silvairre. Suffice it to say, he will not be an easy instructor to impress.
On that we can agree.
Before you take your leave, there is something I would tell you.
You are as dedicated a student as has ever set foot in these halls. In recognition of your fervor for learning, I hereby grant you permission to join the other guilds.
Naturally, you will need to obtain the express permission of the relevant guildmaster, but I doubt that any will refuse one such as you.
In Gridania, you will find guilds representing lancers, conjurers, leatherworkers, carpenters, and botanists. You are free to seek membership in any that piques your interest.
I ask that you keep but one thing in mind: although there is merit in exploring new avenues, there is also virtue in pursuing a single discipline with all one's heart.
The decision is ultimately yours to make. Whichever path you take, be it that of the bow or no, I shall follow your progress with interest, for in you I see the makings of greatness.
Welcome back, Forename. I trust you have been keeping your nose to the grindstone.
As I mentioned when last we spoke, you will train under Silvairre's tutelage today.
Put aside your misgivings and avail yourself of his wealth of experience. Go now, present yourself before him.
Hmph. I see it was too much to hope that you would not return.
The others believe that you have potential, but I am not so easily convinced. Like so many adventurers, you have not the faintest inkling of what it means to be an archer.
And how could you? Archery is the proud tradition of the Wildwood Elezen. The essence of this art─to read one's enemy─has been instilled in us over centuries. In that time, we have defended this great nation against every imaginable foe, granting us insight which you will never possess.
Can you recognize the subtle signs that betray a coming action? No. Can you accurately predict an opponent's movement? No. Can you glean your foe's intentions at a glance? No. And can such things be learned by one who knows nothing of our traditions? No.
It is only out of respect for Luciane that I have agreed to teach you.
Go to the East Shroud and seek out the targets hidden there. But do not presume this will be as easy as before.
As I told you, the ability to read one's enemies is fundamental to archery. Yet the trials set by my colleagues did not require you to do this.
Mine will. The targets you seek have been hidden─and I do mean hidden─in the midst of a region rife with savage beasts. They will play the part of your enemies.
In the unlikely event that you spy a target, your limited range will necessitate that you slip past its bestial guardians prior to taking aim─a feat I consider beyond you. Hm? Was that a frown? Mayhap you are thinking that the Miqo'te set you a similar task? You are wrong. She asked merely that you consider where your foes are─I demand that you discern precisely where they will be. How, then, will you go about this?
Observe them closely and discern their characteristics. Learn to read their movements and recognize patterns in their behavior.
If it has eyes, let it not see you. If it has ears, let it not hear you. Be neither where it is nor where it means to be, and thereby pass unnoticed.
But enough talk. Whether or not you heed my counsel is your decision. I will shed no tears should you fail.
So you have returned. A passable performance for an adventurer, but the bare minimum for any archer.
I carry with me generations of Wildwood tradition─a tradition built upon the bones of the many outsiders who tried to take what is ours.
It was my ancestors who first learned to conceal their presence and fight from the shadows, to hold the enemy at distance to protect the weak. All of it, everything was─
This is a waste of time. You cannot understand.
But if you are so intent upon following in the footsteps of my people...
I bid you go to the North Shroud. Ixali scouts have been sighted near the river west of E-Tatt's Spire, and─unless you are entirely ignorant of Gridanian history─I need not explain that this act of aggression is part of a centuries-old conflict.
The minions do not matter. It is their leader, Nezul Cattlan the Violator, who must fall.
He commands the scouts, and will be well guarded. Yet he stands upon hostile ground, with birdmen and not walls for protection. If you are diligent and determined, you can slip through their defenses and slay their leader.
This is the art of the Gridanian archer. Embrace the wisdom I have bestowed upon you, and the fight will be short.
...If you see the deed done, adventurer, I will take it as proof of your commitment to us, and labor no more to drive you from the guild. Now go.
Ixal!? In my forest!? Not if I have anything to say about it!
I shall assist you, adventurer!
Ware the leader's magicks! Maintain a safe distance!
Even now, I struggle to credit the sentries' reports... Yet here you are, and Nezul Cattlan the Violator is no more. That a godsdamned adventurer should be so...
Hmph. Only by the grace of Nymeia Herself could you have survived. But even though it was pure luck, I will keep my word. Forename─should you stay or should you go, I...care not.
You have completed the task and are no longer my responsibility. Go now to Luciane. She will doubtless wish to lavish you with praise....Hm? Oh, you'll get no more from me. Off with you!
I am given to understand that you single-handedly drove off an Ixali scouting party─and that you did so with precision and guile.
How exactly was that training, Luciane? Forename's just an adventurer. Silvairre thrust her into the jaws of the enemy in the hope that she wouldn't come back!
And when, against all expectation, she did come back, that stubborn arse still refused to acknowledge her skill!
...Is that truly your impression?
Well, yes! He said it was pure luck!
Mere noise. Silvairre sees Forename's skill, of that I have no doubt. Did you not mark the way he covered his mouth when he uttered the words?
It is a habit of his to do so on those occasions when his tongue and his heart are in disagreement.
For all his skill at reading the idiosyncrasies of others, he has yet to recognize his own.
Impressive work, Forename. You have applied yourself to Leih and Silvairre's lessons and demonstrated your command of the core concepts.
You are now an archer in your own right. Allow me to teach you something to commemorate this accomplishment.
Repelling Shot is an advanced technique that enables an archer to evade attacks whilst continuing to fire upon her opponent. Used wisely, it can grant you a brief respite in the heat of battle.
I have faith that, with regular practice, you will learn how best to employ it to your advantage. Remember your seniors' lessons as you strive for true mastery.
You come at a good time, Forename. I have a task for you.
A petition has arrived from the proprietor of Buscarron's Druthers, out in the South Shroud.
The petitioner, Buscarron himself, has requested our assistance in dealing with a gang of poachers. I would have the three of you meet with him and investigate his claims.
The three of us? You mean, Forename, myself, and...?
It would be better if I went alone, Luciane. The Miqo'te and...the other one will only encumber me.
No, Silvairre, you will go as three. Also, it is past time you recognized Forename as a fellow archer.
I will not. I have held my tongue on the matter of her continued presence here, but I will bend no further.
Who in the seven hells do you think you are─Bowlord Lewin!? In case you've forgotten, you aren't even a Quiverman anymore!
That may be, but I have shed blood defending our borders─unlike you, savage.
“Savage”!? You know nothing about me, you bigoted son of a─
Enough!
But one more word and you shall have cause to regret your petulance. The three of you will go to Buscarron's Druthers in the South Shroud. Now, out of my sight!
Ah, you lot must be from the Archers' Guild. Welcome, friends.
Now, as your guildmaster will have said, I put in a request for some keen-eyed archers to help me track down a gang of poachers that've been plaguing these parts.
If I may─it is not uncommon to find poachers in this region. While regrettable, neither the Gods' Quiver nor the Wood Wailers deem them worthy of attention. Why, then, did you imagine them worthy of ours?
'Cause these ain't no common poachers. They're Pawah Mujuuk's gang.
...
They say she and hers are always moving, staying one step ahead. But I reckon she's hiding out here somewhere.
Thing is, I can't just send my people out searching. I made a pact with the Redbelly bandits, see─we stay out of their territory, and they don't make no trouble at the Druthers.
That being so, if I summoned the massed ranks of the Wailers and the Quivermen, all seven hells would swiftly break loose...assuming they thought the matter worthy of their attention, of course. Needless to say, that's not an option. As luck would have it, though, I've got three keen-eyed archers to take care of things instead─and all without raising no alarms.
...We understand. You may leave the matter to us.
Leih, Forename─split up and scour the area for any sign of the poachers.
Should you discover anything, return here and wait. We will reconvene to compare our findings ere long. Go.
An iron leg trap and a poacher's arrow... These are both evidence of illegal activity, but nothing that will help us find Pawah.
And these mead bottles are but old refuse, from before the Druthers was even built. They have no connection to the gang.
...What do you know of this Pawah woman, Silvairre?
I know that she is the most infamous poacher ever to walk the Twelveswood.
A born leader, deadly with the bow, she formed her own gang of Miqo'te hunters.
She was apprehended once, and would have been brought to justice...had she not tricked a foolish young sentry into releasing her, before vanishing without a trace.
...Is that so?
In any case, we've scoured the area and found nothing. How do we know that this Pawah was ever even here?
I say we inform the Gods' Quiver and the Wood Wailers, taking care not to implicate Buscarron, and leave the rest to them. This doesn't concern the Archers' Guild.
It concerns Gridania, Leih! Pawah Mujuuk is a savage and utterly amoral poacher whose actions, however indirectly, threaten the city's well-being.
But what would a vagrant like you know of duty to one's homeland? No more than she, I suspect.
How dare you! And you, Forename─say something!
You see? Even she knows it to be true. Her silence speaks volumes.
Damn it, Forename─say something!
Hmph. Very well. We will return to the matter at hand. Mayhap we should take a second look at the clues we have gathered.
Look all you want. Though the trap and the arrow we found suggest poaching, there is nothing remotely unusual about them.
What do you think we should examine, Forename?
We know that this is a poacher's arrow. Beyond that, it tells us nothing.
This trap is a common tool used for hunting beasts.
Such devices do not distinguish between friend and foe, and have been the cause of much tragedy for both man and chocobo. Gridanian hunters would never stoop so low.
Poachers, meanwhile, are wont to litter the forest floor with these accursed things. That said, I see nothing here that will lead us to Pawah.
Why are you still carrying that rubbish? I told you, those bottles predate the Druthers. They have no connection with this matter.
...But if these bottles are so old, why do they retain the scent of mead? They must surely have been opened recently.
Wait. Before the Calamity, Buscarron once served as a sentry. Yet even then, he sometimes spoke of owning his own tavern...and it was an open secret that he was brewing his own private stock. If some survived...
Of course! Buscarron's Scar─his old lookout post!
It may not be Pawah Mujuuk, but we must investigate at once!
Any signs?
Look─the ground is covered in Miqo'te footprints.
These tracks are fresh─very fresh. I'll wager the bandits were alerted to our coming and fled...else they're hiding near─
Take cover!
