Hah! The word of a heretic and kinslayer! I would sooner trust a dragon. Activate the knights! We shall show the hostages the same mercy he showed the archbishop!
Unlike you, Ser Aymeric, I am a man of honor. By my hand, you shall receive of the Fury's judgment!
So it is to be a trial, then. Lord Artoirel, Forename─leave us and save the hostages! I will deal with Ser Simeonard!
O Halone, render unto us Your judgment! Raise up the righteous, and cast down the wicked!
Come, then! Let us see whom the Fury favors!
Ser Aymeric is still wounded, Forename! If we do not move quickly, he will surely fall!
There must be others nearby, but where!?
Traitor! Kinslayer! By what sorcery do you yet stand!? Enough! All of you─attack!
Ser Aymeric's strength is almost spent, Forename! We must go to his aid at once!
I see no others nearby. Come, Forename! Ser Aymeric needs our help!
Well done! Now let us finish this, ser─before the eyes of gods and men!
Stand fast, my brothers! The Fury is with us!
One day...I swear...you will...
You must hurry! The priest took Maelie upstairs when he saw you kill his men!
Have no fear, child. We will save your friend!
Where is he? Where is he!?
Come no closer!
You have nowhere to run! Release the girl and surrender!
Surrender to whom!? The blasphemer who throws wide the gates to our enemy, who breaks bread with him and calls him brother!? Ungodly swine! I would sooner die than surrender to you!
Is it godly to spill the blood of an innocent child!? To burn the homes of your brothers!? Tell me, priest─is that godly!?
Do not speak to me of godliness, heathen! Your father's blood is on your hands─as is hers!
What? But I...
Vidofnir!
Well met, knight. Mayhap I chose an inopportune moment?
Not at all! Pray forgive us this most unworthy reception. We are honored to have you with us, and right glad of your aid!
Fortune delivered the child unto me. I had but to receive her.
Thank you for savin' me...
Thou art welcome, child.
Never did I think to be indebted to so unexpected a savior. But full glad am I to be so.
Friend of Ysayle, warrior of warriors, I had hoped to meet with thee.
I bear a message from my sire.
From Hraesvelgr?
Upon returning to our lands, Nidhogg's shade did sing unto his brood, and they for skies unknown did then take wing.
This thou must know, for your fates are inextricably bound.
What of Estinien? Is he truly lost to us?
Such matters are beyond my ken. I but bear my father's words. Take from them what thou wilt.
Fare you well, mortals.
So it is as they say, then. A great white dragon swooped down from the heavens to rescue an innocent child.
A most unexpected turn of events...but not an unwelcome one. The people will not soon forget this day.
Yet how will they choose to remember it, Ser Aymeric? And will these events serve to bring man and dragon closer together, or drive a deeper wedge between brothers?
After a thousand years, the world these men once knew is changing─and with ungentle swiftness to boot. Though their actions are misguided, their sentiments are only to be expected. You may be sure that others will rally to their cause.
I share your desire for a lasting peace with the Dravanians, I do, but I would not see it built on the bones of our countrymen─nor on our own.
I see much of Haurchefant in you. And I could not bear to mourn the passing of another son.
Lord Edmont...
This has been a day of surprises, has it not? 'Tis but a pity Vidofnir could not stay longer.
Yes, I think it's fair to say that she timed her departure rather less well than her arrival.
Well-timed scarcely does it justice. But one moment later would have been a moment too late.
Let us pray that the Ishgardians who yet harbored doubts will take these events to heart and accept the truth of Ser Aymeric's words.
Well, 'tis only meet that I inform Tataru of what has occurred here. If you have need of me, I shall be at Fortemps Manor.
Allow me to accompany you. Tataru would never forgive me if I left for the Rising Stones without saying good-bye.
A moment, Forename. I wish a word.
Tell me, does Thancred seem quite well to you?
That he did─which is especially remarkable given the injury to his eye. I can only assume that his time in the wilderness afforded him ample opportunity to compensate for his impairment.
However, I speak not of his physical state, but rather his aetheric flow, which I fear has been irreparably disrupted.
Of that I have no doubt. His time in the wilderness did not deprive him of his charm.
But that is neither here nor there. What concerns me is his aetheric flow, which I fear has been irreparably disrupted.
So you sense it too. A subtle change, imperceptible to most. I myself did not notice it at first, but upon closer examination, I saw that his aetheric flow had been irreparably disrupted.
As a result, I strongly suspect that his ability to manipulate aether has been compromised. Simply put, Thancred may no longer be able to wield magicks.
It would do much to explain why he chose to remain within the wilderness instead of seeking us out. He would have been compelled to rely solely on traditional methods of travel, significantly prolonging his journey. And when he learned that a nearby beast tribe was making preparations to summon a primal, it may well have seemed more sensible to wait.
But this is still little more than speculation. Until I have proof, pray speak no word of it.
Right, then. I should be on my way. Krile may have charmed Master Matoya for now, but who can say how long it will last.
That Vidofnir should chance to arrive even as the girl fell... Truly, I could not have planned it better myself.
Ah, good. We were afraid you might have left.
A shield, my lord?
Fit for a true knight. An expression of our gratitude to you and yours, long overdue.
...But there is something else I would discuss ere you part. Something which cannot leave this room. My father will soon step down as head of our house.
Ser Aymeric was not the only one to fall under suspicion following the death of the archbishop. There are some who believe my father complicit in a coup d'état.
Thus he intends to renounce his title to absolve our house of suspicion and secure the support of our peers.
Surely there must be another way to convince houses Durendaire and Dzemael?
So I said to him. Alas, he will not budge.
Ever since I was a child, I knew that I would one day succeed my father, and the thought of it filled me with pride. Yet once I learned the day was at hand, my heart was filled with naught but dread.
Our legacy is built upon the lies of our forefathers. In accepting this title, am I not perpetuating this injustice? Why should I become the next count?
You sound just like him. Aye, I suspect that is what Haurchefant would have said. “To aid those in need...”
...But then I thought of my brother. “A knight lives to serve─to aid those in need.”
When you look on that shield, I trust you will remember his words. And should I once more find my resolve wavering, I ask that you show me the way.
You were a sister to Haurchefant. Will you be a sister to me as well?
Come, Emmanellain. There is much to be done. For Father, and for Ser Aymeric. And for Ishgard.
<sigh> To think we share the same blood... Pray excuse us.
Those were the days of promises and vows─of tentative first steps into an uncertain future.
A future shaped by the choices we made, in ways we could never have foreseen.
Born of good and evil, of light and darkness, and shepherded by our hand.
Be it for weal, or be it for woe.
Be it for weal, or be it for woe.
...This is thy proof? The Gerun Oracles? Apocrypha.
It is a truth long forgotten─a tale of the beginning, and of the path we have been set upon.
Our fates were ordained long ago, Archon. The Garleans are no exception. Nor the Triad. You know what must be done.
...Well?
Everyone has their orders.
The Masks will attack as soon as all units are in position. The imperials won't know what hit them.
I fear it will be bloody...
By Rhalgr, it had better be.
We cannot stay here forever, Yda. We have other responsibilities.
I know full well what my responsibilities are─and I mean to fulfill them, every one!
Alphinaud, Forename! I've been looking all over for you!
We've received news regarding F'lhaminn, Hoary Boulder, and Coultenet!
Really? Has something happened?
No, no, it's nothing bad─quite the opposite, in fact! It seems that once they learned the Scions' good name had been restored, they boarded the next ship bound for Limsa Lominsa. They should be arriving any moment now!
It's easy to forget how useful linkpearls are, isn't it? When they work, I mean. And you don't mind being spied on.
Quite. But what wonderful news! To think that our reunion is close at hand.
A pleasure to see you too, Alphinaud.
Ah, Thancred...and Krile. What brings the two of you here?
Krile and I have been looking into how we might track down Minfilia.
And we may just have found the answer.
Forename─when you were fleeing Ul'dah with Minfilia, you said that Hydaelyn spoke to her shortly before you parted ways, yes?
Well, assuming that is true─and I see no reason to suspect that it is not─it seems reasonable to conclude that Hydaelyn commanded her to remain behind.
That is to say, the Mothercrystal directly interceded to guide Minfilia.
Admittedly, this is all still quite hypothetical, but I propose that such intervention, however subtle, must surely leave some residual trace. A lingering disturbance in the aether─or ripple, if you will.
In order to establish the existence of such ripples, of course, we will require suitable data.
Fortunately, I know where such data can be found: the battleground where Forename felled the Ultima Weapon...and the site of my personal ignominy.
'Twas there that Hydaelyn intervened to shield her from the magick I invoked. Krile and I will infiltrate the castrum and analyze the aether therein.
The two of you? Alone?
I have a proven knack for subterfuge, and I am confident there will be sufficient nooks and crannies in which to hide Krile while the patrols pass.
Besides, if you and Forename come along, who will see to F'lhaminn's grand homecoming?
When you put it like that... Very well, I will trust in your plan.
I know not whether this data will yield a means to find Minfilia, but it will at the very least eliminate another avenue of inquiry.
Tataru and I will return to the Rising Stones and make preparations for our comrades' return. Might I impose upon you to meet them at the Lominsan docks?
Then I shall see the four of you at the Rising Stones. Safe travels!
Oh, Forename! How have you been? Come here─let me have a good look at you.
Thank the Twelve. One hears the strangest tales in foreign lands. I worried about you all every day...
We would have sent word sooner, but the Braves afforded us no opportunity. When they fell upon us in the market, it was all we could do to escape.
Tataru found her way to you, of course, but we were forced to seek shelter aboard a Hannish vessel.
It pained us not being there when you needed us most. But we made the most of it, didn't we, Coultenet? Studied and trained from dusk till dawn, we did!
We would have sent word sooner, but we knew not whom to trust, and with the vast distance...
But those dark days are behind us at last. I shall be glad indeed to return home and speak with my daughter.
What do you mean she's missing!? How could you let this happen!?
Forgive me, I...I am sure you are doing everything in your power to find her.
...As Thancred must be. He watched over her from the first─long before me. And he will watch over her to the last.
I shall pray for her safe return, and busy myself in the meantime.
For a certainty, there is much and more to be done. The Braves may have bloodied us, but the path remains, and we shall not be swayed from it.
Aye, that's the spirit! To the Scions, and a long overdue reunion! Huzzah!
Well, there you have it. To the Rising Stones!
Well done, sir. And with that, I believe we are ready to proceed.
Let us be about our business then. The next patrol may not be so credulous.
Why must you be so disappointingly brusque? You're not at all as Minfilia described, you know. I don't think you've favored me with so much as a single compliment since we set out.
Tell me, did your time in the wilderness sap you of all your charm, or are you holding it in reserve for your beloved?
This is neither the time nor the place.
Well, call me old-fashioned, but when I'm risking life and limb infiltrating an imperial castrum, I like to be sure of my comrades' motivations.
I see now where Alphinaud gets it from.
Minfilia is dear to me, it is true─but not in the way you think.
Fifteen years past, when she was still but a child, there was an incident at a parade. A goobbue broke free of its fetters and ran amok through the streets of Ul'dah. Had I been more attentive, I could have prevented it...but I was distracted, and her father was killed.
I feared she would never recover, but in the years that followed, she showed herself to be more resilient than I had ever imagined. And when she learned of her gift, she did not flinch from the responsibility, but sought to guide others on the path.
She touched the hearts of all around her. Mine, Louisoix's, every Scion's. In those dark days following the Calamity, she was our guiding light─our hope for a brighter future.
She had so many dreams...and I would give anything to make them come true.
My apologies. I can see she means the world to you. I did not mean to pick at old scars.
No harm done, I assure you. But fair is fair, my lady─what is Minfilia to you?
You mean you don't know? Only my dearest friend.
When I finally emerged from my torpor, I learned that nary a day had passed without her asking after me. She never gave up hope.
And neither will I.
Then for Minfilia's sake, let us pray that these vestiges of Hydaelyn's intervention will lead us to her.
...It feels good to be home again.
To think that everyone is waiting for us, just beyond those doors. Friends and family with whom we have shared so much...
...Gods help me, but the older I get, the more sentimental I become. Come, let us not keep them waiting.
Alianne, Ephemie! It fills my heart with joy to see you both hale and healthy. And what of Higiri?
She is well, though abroad on a mission at present.
It just wasn't the same without you. Welcome back, my lady!
Ah, we could do with more of that around here! Heartfelt reunions with stalwart companions! Brings a─<belch>─brings a bloody tear to the eye!
To secret oneself in a ship's hold to secure safe passage to a faraway land... This is a tale we know all too well.
When they are well rested, I should like to seek a formal introduction.
Why wait, my friend? Come, there is no need to be shy!
Pray grant me a moment longer, at least! Though I am happy to oblige you, my legs are rather less accommodating...
Ocher! What in the seven hells drove my little brother to come to Mor Dhona?
