Opening connection to Communications Module I... Connection established.
Transmission: strategic Matrix Stigma-1 now online. As the primary strategic matrix, you may address me as “Sir.”
Checking for new communications... None found. All units, please maintain current state.
End transmission. Closing connection...
Wait! We have questions for you!
Of late, no mission orders have been issued. Why not? Has there been some manner of trouble?
Reply: the extended operations unit has yet to determine guidelines for future assignments.
All strategies are calculated, devised, and actioned in accordance with said guidelines.
In the interim, all citizens are directed to maintain a state of combat readiness. End reply. Awaiting query.
Can you tell us why the extended operations unit hasn't yet determined the guidelines?
Unable to comply. Information unavailable or access restricted.
In that case, is it possible for us to communicate directly with the unit?
...Access denied. Unable to establish connection.
Is there anything you can tell us? Have there been any abnormalities, like a threat to the star or widespread unrest?
Reply: negative. All citizens continue to operate at maximum efficiency.
If your operations are suboptimal, please proceed to a maintenance facility for evaluation. Otherwise, standby at your designated post. End reply.
End transmission. Closing connection...
I could activate it again, but I doubt it would be productive. What do you think?
If all the Omicrons really were running as efficiently as it claimed, then I doubt they were hoping for life here to end.
As this Sir told us, there just haven't been any new instructions, and everyone is standing by.
Should be standing by, at any rate. If there are those that are neglecting their duties, perhaps we can glean a clue from them.
I propose we take another look around, and also try to find the operations unit.
Though I never encountered Omega myself, in conceiving the means to send the Crystal Tower to the First, we derived no small inspiration from its abilities.
In the course of my research, I devoured every single piece of literature I could find on the being. To think that the knowledge would prove useful here, at the edge of existence...
I remember when we set Omega loose to deal with Shinryu...
An Allagan weapon, we once thought. And here we are now, visiting a recreation of its home world.
I can only imagine how else these beings will surprise us...
Let us focus our search on the outpost.
Alisaie and I will try speaking with the Omicrons this time, in the hopes we might learn something new.
Meanwhile, perhaps you and G'raha could observe them from a distance.
These beings are systematic and routine by nature. If there are any that aren't, it shouldn't be too difficult to spot them.
If there are no questions, then let us begin at once!
As we came this way, I believe I spied a promising vantage point. Follow me.
And here we are. I see the twins are wasting no time with their inquiries.
Let us begin observing the Omicrons. They are supposed to be standing by, so we should look for any that aren't.
Let us begin observing the Omicrons. They are supposed to be standing by, so we should look for any that aren't.
Let us begin observing the Omicrons. They are supposed to be standing by, so we should look for any that aren't.
Let us begin observing the Omicrons. They are supposed to be standing by, so we should look for any that aren't.
Let us begin observing the Omicrons. They are supposed to be standing by, so we should look for any that aren't.
