...hither...embrace...mine everything...all...♪
...true love spurned...her cruelty's reward...♪
Cast out...callous soul...dead to desire...♪
Spare...mournful mistress...distress...♪
...melody...last breath...of death...the rhythm...♪
Dost thou not...to relent...regret...forever alone...♪
My love...a river...one look...soul shiver...♪
No more...dark...eclipse...the heart...♪
Eh? Am I all right? Hah! I'm better'n that, 'nitiate! Happy as a sailor in a whorehouse, I am! ...'Course, I'd be happy as a sailor with two wotsits if we'd gutted the songstress─but ye can't have everythin', can ye?
She'll not come croonin' 'round here again, though─not fer a while, anyroad. An' if she does...well, we know what to do, don't we?
Thanks for the help, uh... Bugger me, I've clean forgot yer name! Remind me. Forename? Don't recall havin' no 'nitiate by that name. But if yer not me ol' mate, er...wossname, why've ye been so bloody helpful? Ah, never mind. Be seein' ye, lassie.
You mean it was a siren!? But how were you able to resist her song? ...I see. I had heard that Master Mimidoa was involved in the first purge, but I never actually... Hm.
Having survived an ordeal like that, I can't blame him for carrying earplugs around with him...
Anyway, I have something for you: the corrupted crystal you wanted, safely sealed within the pot, just as you requested. Please, take it with my compliments.
Oh, it's you! Welcome back, Forename. You're looking remarkably hale, I must say─and, more importantly, alive! You are alive, aren't you?
Aha! The conquering hero returns bearing a gift! Might I have a closer look?
Impressive...very impressive indeed. Yes...I think you'll be quite pleased with this specimen.
Congratulations, Forename! Seldom if ever have I encountered a corrupted crystal composed of such a volatile overabundance of fire-aspected aether.
What? You wanted a corrupted crystal composed of ice-aspected aether to counteract the effects of a raging wind? Ah...ahaha. Well, this specimen won't help you there. Anyone who knows anything about the elements could tell you that. You'll just have to keep looking, I suppose!
Don't fret, now─I know exactly where to find a corrupted crystal comprised of ice-aspected aether. An associate of mine in Gridania has been studying the effects of one such crystal on living beings.
Eh? What's with that expression? I thought you would be pleased to hear this news! This is not another wild-dodo chase, I assure you!
And what's even better is that this time, you needn't use that warded pot of yours to protect yourself from this crystal's energies. Hedyn's findings suggest that it is quite safe.
Why, you ask? Well...let's just say that it has undergone a unique process that has rendered such precautions unnecessary.
Anyway, do not let me keep you. It has been a pleasure, Forename. Come back and see me sometime, all right?
