Ceruleum? You've come to the right man. Fair warnin', though: the price has shot up on account of the uncertainty with the Empire, so I hope you've got the coin!
Well now, a promissory note from the Ironworks. Don't see many of these. Not that it's a problem─it's as good as gold to me.
My friend. After the disappointment of not seeing you in Ala Mhigo, what good fortune to chance upon you here of all places.
As you may have heard, the allied nations are making a renewed effort to address the primal problem.
To that end have I invited the chieftain of the Vanu to Ishgard, that we might together plot a course.
Since the war with the Empire appears to be nearing its conclusion, I would also like to call upon Estinien's lance. Alas, he is as ever a difficult man to find.
I am informed he recently paid a visit to the Rising Stones. Should he happen to do so again, be sure to pass on my regards, won't you.
But tell me, what business brings you to our fair city this day?
A cure for tempering... You never cease to amaze me. Until now, our only hope has been prevention, our every failure irrevocable. But this─this would rewrite the rules of engagement. It could end the cycle of bloodshed...!
Very well. You shall have all the ceruleum we can provide─and an airship with which to transport it.
In this matter, you may count on Ishgard's full support.
Who would have thought ceruleum weighed so much?
Serves me right for being stubborn, I suppose. I should have just done what you did and accepted help.
Good work, you two. This is all we asked for and more. Quite a lot more, now that I look at it...
Lord Aymeric, eh? And entirely by chance? Hah! Some people have all the luck.
We have also succeeded in configuring the terminals─thanks in no small part to our able assistant.
It's been a while, hero. You seem surprised to see me. Lest you misunderstand, I've no interest in such things as cures for tempering.
But if you mean to achieve that which eluded even the storied Allagans, it seemed plain that you would require my expertise. And so it proved. Is that not right, Garlond?
Ask Jessie. She was the one who hired you. All I know is you're an employee of the Ironworks now, so you'll bloody well earn your keep.
Ahem. That wasn't the only reason I agreed to cooperate. I am reliably informed that Garlond and I are destined to unravel the secrets of travel not only across dimensions, but through time.
Doubtless the lion's share of the credit lies with me─nine parts to Garlond's one. And this research will be a stepping-stone to that illustrious achievement.
Very well, then. I'll do a tenth of the work. Just the part that's beyond you.
Whatever you say, Garlond.
Right! If everyone's ready, let's begin!
All appears to be in order. Now we just have to wait for it to find us our magick. Why not take this opportunity to put your feet up? This may take a while...
Damn it. It's overloading!
Chief! She won't last much longer!
We'll have to shut it down!
Wait! We're close! So very close!
Well, this is going swimmingly...
Please, a moment longer! I beg you!
There!
I was able to memorize the magick before it faded. It still needs to be put to the proof, but...I believe we have our cure!
It's just as well. She'll never run again.
The fault is mine. I'm sorry.
Don't be. It may fall short of dimension-hopping, but a cure for tempering is not to be sniffed at.
This, my friend, is a world-changing discovery. One we're proud to have had a hand in. A few magitek terminals are a pittance to pay.
Thank you.
Well, we've done what we can. The rest is up to you.
At long last, we have our cure...
In theory, at any rate. We cannot be certain until such time as we put it to the proof, but I am quietly confident.
Well, if we're to test it on someone, then I suggest Ga Bu. His symptoms are relatively mild.
Yes. As long as we exercise due caution, it will be fine.
Without further ado, then, let's make for Limsa. We've kept Ga Bu waiting long enough!
Well, this is the moment of truth. I'll have our hosts bring Ga Bu to us at once.
Apologies for the wait.
Ga Bu. Have you been good?
...
Still no change, I'm afraid. He just stands there in silence until we move him.
It's all right now. We're going to help you get better.
Fancy meeting you here.
Alphinaud! Y'shtola! I thought you were attending to primal matters.
We were, and came here for a meeting on the subject. Certain pirate factions did not deign to attend, however, and it was canceled.
We had resigned ourselves to having wasted a journey when we chanced to espy you.
Could it be that there has been progress with the treatment?
Using magitek terminals to formulate the solution... I would never have contemplated such an approach.
So this new magick, adapted from memory transference, would be used to purge the subject of their fanatical faith, while Angelo would be responsible for reanimating the aether of their soul... Hm.
Yet I wonder at the practicalities. If one were to reanimate the soul first, it would only serve to exacerbate the tempering. Conversely, a stagnant soul would not respond to the effects of the magick.
Would both need to be performed simultaneously?
Nothing escapes Master Matoya's inquiring eye! As you say, both must be carried out simultaneously, and thus I propose to imbue Angelo with the tempering treatment in much the same manner as I did the spirit vessels.
By doing so, we also spare G'raha the trouble of casting spell after spell. It's really rather efficient.
Be that as it may, certain difficulties are unavoidable: the imbuing process will still require no small amount of aether.
And as I can no longer draw upon the Crystal Tower's stores of energy, I will be compelled to rely on those of others.
Well, I for one would be glad to assist.
As would I. Since the resumption of our duties, it has been naught but stuffy meetings, and I have ample aether to spare.
Excellent. With your permission, then, let us begin.
Yes, this will do!
And now it's my turn!
'Tis done...
“No small amount,” indeed...
Well...we seek to go where even the Allagans did not. It was never like to be easy.
The rest is up to you, Alisaie. The treatment itself will take time and focus, so we will need a quiet room. I'm sure our hosts can spare one.
I will go with her. It may be a while before we return, so I would ask for your patience...and your faith.
We'll bring Ga Bu back. You see if we don't!
'Twould seem our part is played. Let us find a place to recuperate while we wait for news.
Well, this seems as good a spot as any to have a rest.
For years, Eorzea has labored to find a solution to the primal problem, without success. Any hope that tempering could be reversed faded long ago.
I myself had given it up as impossible─given up on the tempered and the Light-corrupted alike. They were problems to be tolerated, or else eliminated, I believed, and to think otherwise was pure naivety. Childishness, even.
But Alisaie refused to give up. She struggled, and she struggled...and her efforts were rewarded with a way to bring back Halric. And now countless others may no longer be beyond salvation.
However much we bicker, I have the greatest respect for my sister. Had I half her stubbornness─nay, her unwillingness to accept the status quo, I would be a far better person. A far better Scion.
She told you of my graduation thesis? How very...embarrassing.
Nonetheless, it is comforting─and not a little surprising─to hear that I'm still capable of impressing my sister. On the rare occasions I'm not annoying her, that is.
I should, I know. Yet despite my good intent, I have the feeling that I would only succeed in incurring her ire.
Alisaie! Are you all right?
The treatment─did it work?
I'm so glad to see you all! Delighted, happy, glad!
Ga Bu!
All this time, my mind was filled with thoughts of Great Father Titan.
But I never forgot about Mother and Father. Always, they were in my heart. Constantly, ever, always.
So I tried to focus on their faces. Theirs and yours. Alisaie's and everyone's. And I found that I could remember. One thing, then another, and another!
Your hopes reached Ga Bu. They helped him to hold on.
I'm so proud of you, Ga Bu.
I couldn't have done it without you, Alisaie. Can you help the others too? Cure them, heal them, help them?
Yes. We can. All of them.
Without wishing to dampen the mood, I feel compelled to add certain caveats regarding the viability of the treatment for general use.
As you know, reversing the effects of tempering demands a profuse amount of aether. And while Alisaie was able to heal Ga Bu alone, I fear the same will not be true for those who exhibit more advanced symptoms.
Moreover, the treatment's effects are limited to the soul. It offers no succor to those whose very flesh has been altered through prolonged exposure to a primal's influence.
All of which is to say that we cannot save everyone.
Maybe we can't. Or maybe we can. No one gave us a hope of saving Ga Bu, and yet here we are. We must find a way to treat as many as possible.
Then...the next logical step would be to produce a veritable army of porxies, would it not? Granted, it seemed a simple enough process in the First, but I suspect it will be different here in the Source. Not that I am any authority, of course...
Yet there is an authority on familiars to whom we may grudgingly turn. She's stubborn, haughty, eccentric, irascible, laconic, annoying─and her name is Master Matoya. The real one.
I have to go now, Ga Bu, but the people here will look after you, all right? And I promise to come and visit you again soon.
All right! Thank you, Alisaie! Thank you!
As she will be at pains to remind me, I have not paid Master Matoya a visit since returning from the First. But this seems as good a time as any. Come, let us make for her cave.
I take it you are ready to bear witness to the joyous reunion of master and pupil? Very well...
Nary a word from you all this time, then you bring every man and his poroggo with you. Did no one teach you any manners, girl?
They were too busy teaching me aetherology, Master. Jesting aside, I wanted to be the one to express our gratitude.
I am told you spared no effort to sustain our bodies while we were away. And for that we owe you our lives. Thank you.
Hmph. You were gone so long, I was starting to think you'd set your heart on staying.
It wasn't easy to leave, as it happens. Seldom does one have the opportunity to study other worlds, and I would not have minded extending my stay by a handful of years.
Ever the scholar, Y'shtola dedicated herself to studying ancient civilizations of the First, befriending a tribe known as the Night's Blessed in the process. There, she took on the name of Matoya, and won the respect of all the children of the forest.
I merely adopted an alias in accordance with the custom of my hosts. Yours just happened to be the first name that came to mind.
You mean to tell me you went gallivanting about using my name, and only bother to visit when you need a favor? And don't pretend you don't! I taught you long enough.
Indeed. And devoted pupil that I am, I could not fail to recall my master's sage advice: “When the answer eludes you, look to the wisdom of your elders.”
You there─were you going to introduce yourself?
How remiss of me. G'raha Tia is my name, and I am proud to call myself a Scion.
I too wish to offer my gratitude for your invaluable aid in sustaining the Archons' bodies...as well as my apologies. It was my inexpert summoning spell which endangered their lives in the first place.
Ah, yes, the one bent on digging up the mysteries of Allag. Old Galuf used to speak of you, and Krile's told me all about your recent exploits.
Do you have a bad back, or something? At ease, boy! Whatever mess you've made, I'm not in the habit of dwelling on the failings of the younger generation.
...You are too kind. I have also heard much and more about you, Master Matoya. 'Tis an honor to finally make your acquaintance.
Well, that's more than enough pleasantries for anyone. Tell me what you want. I haven't got all day.
...So that's the way of it. It should be a simple enough matter to make the familiar. The magick, on the other hand...
Ah, that you may leave to me. Being the only one possessed of royal blood, I alone can imbue the subject with the necessary magick.
So I just need to create porxies with the power to stir the soul.
“Just,” I say, though we're talking about a veritable herd of the little buggers. We'd collapse before we reached double figures.
But if I could get a familiar to create the familiars─a mother porxie, as it were...
It seems I haven't seen the last of that moldy old hole after all...
All right, off to my old workshop, then. Everything required to make your familiar is there.
That may be, but no one has set foot in there since the exodus. I dread to imagine what has become of it.
Oh, there's sure to be a handful of feral familiars and mayhap a monster or two. But nothing to trouble the likes of you. You can consider cleaning up the place payment for my help.
Fine. We'll do it.
Good girl. Now, if there are no other objections, I suggest you run along to the Makers' Quarter.
I'll send one of my poroggos ahead to let you into the workshop. You need only tell him who you are. One can't be too careful, after all. Off you go.
