Runar!
In the woods...   Sin eaters. I fear they may have the touch.
Where!?
In the grove to the southwest. For a mercy, they've yet to wander any closer to Slitherbough.
Then we have no need to engage. Inform the guard that no one is to set foot outside the village until they have moved on.
But sir, what of Toddia's heartstone?
It must be retrieved before the service.
Of all the times for sin eaters to appear...
Are you just going to leave them alone?
Under normal circumstances, we would not hesitate in striking the beasts down. But if they indeed have the touch, I will not risk them corrupting one of our own.
What was that you said about a stone?
A few days past, Toddia, a child of the Night's Blessed, was slain by the sin eaters.
We succeeded in retrieving her body, but in our haste, we failed to notice her necklace was gone.
Strung to it was a pendant of jade─her heartstone. All of the Night's Blessed are given such a stone at birth. It is the most valuable possession one can own.
It is custom to present the heartstone of the deceased at their funeral, as an offering to the heavens. But now...
What if... What if I could find it for you?
I have experience fighting sin eaters. And the Light's...corruption does not touch me like it does others.
Master Matoya called you Minfilia, did she not? Are you truly the Minfilia? Descended from the Oracle?
Even so, I dare not ask you to risk your life for the Blessed.
I understand how you feel, but I can't stand by knowing that your people are in need and I can help. Please, let me do this.
Very well. But if the danger proves too great, you must retreat. I could never forgive myself if we were forced to hold a second service.
<gasp> I nearly forgot about Thancred. What if he returns before I do?
Thank you. With you at my side, I'm certain we can deal with them in no time at all.
Wh-What!? Do you mean to say...you'll come with me?
Thank you. Let's hurry then, before he returns.
Go swiftly, and may the shadows keep you both.
There! The sin eaters!
I was hoping there would only be one...
There's no way we can search for the stone without dealing with them first.
What? Shouldn't we make a plan first?
Though...there are only two.
I'll draw one of them away. You can deal with the other.
Good idea. I'll draw one away while you handle the other.
Fighting them together here would make a lot of noise, which might attract beasts or other eaters...
But if we fought them separately and quietly, we might not have to worry about that.
All right, then. I'll draw one away while you handle the other.
Forename. <pant> <pant> There you are.
It's done. Though, I fear I was a bit careless. I'll do better next time, I promise.
I... I'm fine. You needn't worry about me. More importantly, we have to find that heartstone.
They said it was made of jade, right? I'll search over there in the brush.
They said it was made of jade, right? I'll search over there in the brush.
Did you have any luck?
It's beautiful! This has to be it.
...You know, Thancred always said you were a woman of many talents, and I think I'm beginning to understand what he meant.
I have much to learn if I'm to be even half the hero you are.
The hero she was...
Ah, I'm sorry. Forget I said anything.
We should hurry back to Slitherbough. Runar and the others are probably worried.
Thank goodness you are safe. I had begun to fear the worst.
By all that is dark, you found it!
We can proceed with her service as planned.
These blessed gems serve not only to protect us in life, but to guide our spirits unto the sunless sea in the hereafter.
Even should we be felled by the sin eaters, so long as these gems are recovered, our souls are ensured peace in the dark.
Words fail to express my gratitude for this kindness you have done for the Blessed.
I must insist you and your friends attend Toddia's service as honored guests.
There is still much we must do to prepare, but please go and inform the others it will be held in the Darker.
When you arrive, there should be an attendant present to explain the proceedings.
Forename and I learned so much about the Night's Blessed while you were away.
And we helped them recover a lost heirloom out in the woods. I know I wasn't supposed to leave, but they really needed our help! There were sin eaters, and─
As long as she accompanied you. But do try to be more careful. Your injuries could have been a lot worse.
H-How did you...?
Let's just say a little bird told me. And it's telling me now that Forename has business with us.
Is something the matter?
They've asked us to attend the service?
Of course we'll go. It's being held in the Darker, is it? We'll take care not to be late, I promise.
...
...
It seemed only right that we show our faces. May we join you?
Let us begin.
I thank you all for coming to pay respects to our fallen daughter of the night. In the light, she was known as Toddia. But in the dark, we shall remember her always as Minnine. Let us each take a moment to offer her our prayers.
We entrust her now to the night's sweet embrace.
In Darkness will she be free from pain and suffering, now and forevermore.
May her soul find peace in the sunless sea of heaven, and in the love we bear for her in our hearts.
That vessel represents the night sky. The “sunless sea of heaven.”
We call upon you now, O Bringer of Shadow, to lead this gentle soul unto the sea. We call upon you, O Warrior of Darkness, to deliver her unto paradise everlasting.
I am told you assisted in the preparations for the service. On behalf of the Blessed, you have my sincerest thanks.
The enduring legend of the Warrior of Darkness owes much to the traditions of these people.
And none were more ardent in their faith than Toddia. She would have been greatly moved by your presence.
You might not deliver her to the heavens, but if you could deliver the night sky to her people─the real night sky─it would be the next best thing.
Their prayers would finally be answered. They could gaze up at the firmament and see their ancestors in every twinkle of the stars.
We cannot allow their hopes and dreams to drown in the light. We have to bring back the dark. If we don't, who will?
Forgive me. Thinking of all those we have lost, I...
No, it's all right. We will bring back the dark.
Mayhap sooner than later, in fact.
Urianger and I have finished deciphering the tablet, and its contents were most illuminating. Let us reconvene in my chambers. We have much to discuss.
Good, you're here. Thanks to the Exarch's gift, our next course of action is now clear.
Let me begin by first explaining the origins of this tablet.
I initially believed it might detail the history of the Church of the First Light. Much to my surprise, it dates back to the end of the Ronkan Empire, and was likely written under the direction of the reigning ruler.
It was a time of strife and unceasing war with neighboring nations. With each passing day they yielded more and more territory to their enemies.
In their desperation, petitions for aid were sent out to their allies. This was one such petition.
And you think this ancient petition will somehow help us get into Yx'Maja?
Indeed we do.
For etched into this tablet is a method by which one may prove themself an ally of the Ronkan Empire.
Provided we are able to decipher said instructions, we may entreat the ruin's protectors to grant us safe passage.
The problem, however, is I presently lack the resources to decipher them in their entirety.
We have but one recourse: there exists a stone monument inscribed with ancient Ronkan text and translations into a more modern dialect which came into use after the fall of the empire. I am confident it will suit our purposes.
Where can we find this monument?
Here in Citia, quite close to Slitherbough, in fact.
The good news ends there, however, for it is in the possession of a rather radical faction of Dark worshipers─the Children of the Everlasting Dark.
If I am to study the monument, I must infiltrate their encampment.
I have no intention of taking longer than absolutely necessary, but I will nevertheless require time to transcribe the text I need. To ensure that I will have enough, I am afraid I must ask you and Thancred to assist me.
And before you even ask, the answer is no. If we're to remain unseen, our group must be as small as possible.
...All right. I'll stay here until you return.
We won't be long. If anything should happen, you keep her safe.
Then let us convene outside, to the west of Slitherbough where the path diverges.
The encampment we seek is to the north, but it would be foolish to simply rush in.
A guard has been posted at Cleric to keep watch over the Children. Perhaps he has aught to share of their recent activity.
But we must tread carefully. There is a chance we may encounter them along the way.
Stay close and stay alert. I would avoid a confrontation if possible.
They rejoice in dealing death to others, claiming that in doing so they cleanse their victims of sin and usher them unto the sunless sea. I would rather not sully my hands defending myself against such madmen.
