Master Rammbroes! Master Rammbroes!
'Tis G'raha Tia, sir! He came into the Crystal Tower, and began ordering researchers out!
What? Why would he do such a thing?
I do not know, sir, but he was quite insistent. He all but bodily forced me out of the gates.
I suppose it's possible he told one of the others, but I wasted no time in finding out. I thought it best to hasten here and ask your guidance.
Very well. Let us go and speak with these researchers, and get to the bottom of this queer business.
Master Garlond, Forename, please come with me. No doubt G'raha means to seal off the Crystal Tower, but it worries me that he did not breathe a word of his plan to us.
What in the world was G'raha Tia thinking, demanding we leave the tower?
No doubt you want to know why. I wish I knew that myself!
Of course, he would tell me nothing. But he will be honest with you, miss─I am certain of it!
Go no further, my friends! The doors will close ere long.
So you are of a mind to seal the tower, G'raha.
I know time is of the essence, but all I ask is a hint of your plan. Please, come here so we can discuss this.
...No. My apologies, but I cannot.
Come, man, what is this nonsense!? If aught is amiss, surely we can help!
Not this time, my friend. Just as Unei and Doga fulfilled their destiny, so too must I fulfill mine. My blood has awakened me to this fact.
As my father told me, the truth has always lain with Allag. Or, rather, 'twas there the wish I must grant was born.
You see, not all the world perished in Xande's calamity. Survivors stood amidst the ruins of Allag, looking to the Crystal Tower. But it was nowhere to be seen.
Yet they hoped its spires would again dominate the land, and prayed that the Crystal Tower would be a beacon of hope to people everywhere.
Word of this soon reached the only member of Allag's royalty to outlive the empire: the princess Salina.
Salina was moved by the people's dearest wish. She used the very best of Allag's technology to give her blood and memories to he whom she trusted most. That man was my forebearer.
For millennia, we waited. Allag's art and ingenuity faded. Our royal blood grew thin. But before the last drop could vanish from the realm, the memory of all this returned to me.
And now, I must fulfill the wish of the ancients. The tower will shine forth as a new beacon of hope.
G'raha, the Crystal Tower's strength poses too great a threat to Eorzea now.
We would need technology as advanced as Allag's to use it correctly. As things stand, we barely understand the tower's workings. Hells, we may never fully comprehend them.
'Tis as you say, Cid. We could wait for someone, someday, to reach the same heights as Allag, but by then we will have lost the royal blood and the means to control the tower.
But what if I do as Amon did, and put the tower into a deep sleep?
What!? You cannot mean that!
I am deadly serious, Cid. The tower may only be used once men rival the Allagans in knowledge. I will slumber within Syrcus Tower until then, to greet those with the means to open the gates.
Then, I will guide them. And thus will the tower shine forth as the beacon of hope it was meant to be. 'Tis the only way to make the wishes of the ancients come true.
The future is where my destiny awaits.
But yours lies outside of these doors. Go. Create a future where hope reigns, and the tragedies of the past are but memories. No one but you can accomplish such things.
Nothing we say will make you change your mind, will it?
Onwards to a brighter future... It won't be easy, of course. But that's exactly why we'll do it!
W-We'll catch up with Allag, just you wait! We'll cover all that lost ground before you even know it!
Well said, Wedge! It'll only be a few years before we come knocking, G'raha. Then you're in for a rude awakening!
You shall be witness to NOAH's accomplishments. Pray keep alive our successes, and forgive us our failures. And may we meet again, my friend.
The Twelve keep you till then, Rammbroes. I look forward to learning of your exploits. And you, Forename─I know history will remember you. No doubt your heroism will be the star by which I chart my course when I awake.
Well, now I must rest. Recalling so much has put me in the mood for sleep.
Farewell, my friends. I eagerly await a future born of your courage and the ancients' wish.
The Crystal Tower slumbers again, then. 'Tis too quiet for my taste.
Good-bye, Cid. I must put all this at my back. Possibility beckons, and I am bound to follow.
A new dawn has come for me.
You have just missed Cid, Forename. There is much that needs his attention if he is to fulfill G'raha's wishes, it seems.
But this is not the end of NOAH, no matter how lonely Saint Coinach's Find has become for our friends' departure.
We must all walk in different directions now. Remember that we labor for a brighter future, lit by G'raha's beacon. Sealing the Crystal Tower was but the first step.
Farewell, my friend. May our paths cross again.
Have you a moment, Forename? I believe Yda wished a word with you.
I should consider it a personal favor if you would lend a sympathetic ear to her troubles.
She has not been herself since Moenbryda's passing, and my heart aches to see her so downcast...
Hey, it's Forename! Great!
...Oh, it's no use. I'm trying to stay positive, but...  It's just hard, you know...?
The thing is, I know Moen would tell me off if she saw me moping around like this...
...Which is why I decided to cheer myself up by getting her a special flower.
I placed an order for a moon daisy with Rowena a little while ago, and it's ready to be picked up.
The trouble is...I find Rowena a bit difficult at the best of times, and...well, this isn't one of them. I know it's silly, but I just can't face it at the moment. So, I was wondering...do you think you could maybe collect it for me? I have the coin to pay for the flower right here.
Thank you so much! I'll be waiting for you─and the daisy─at Rathefrost!
