Soft rains to soothe the heart and sunshine to warm. Gratitude of Sonu, chief of Zundu, is boundless.
We are honored to meet you, Chief Sonu. I am Alphinaud Leveilleur, and these are my companions Forename Surname and Cid Garlond.
We are come in search of an airship─a flying vessel of the nethers─which we believe is somewhere in the cloud sea.
Ah, like to black steel-shod contraption from which you save Lonu Vanu?
Alas, no. That ship belongs to the Garlean Empire─an old enemy of ours...though not the enemy we are looking for at present.
The men we seek wear armor of purest white, and are led by an older man in white robes.
Wait! Lonu Vanu hear tell of these netherlings!
You do? Are you certain?
As sun rises and falls and returns, we are. Zundu scouts can testify to words of Lonu Vanu.
Aye, aye! Winds carry purpose of netherlings to our ears as well. Netherlings seek key to Azys Lla!
Now we're getting somewhere! Tell us, Chief Sonu: what exactly is this “Azys Lla”?
Beware, netherlings, for blackest clouds portend greatest danger. Look not into heart of tempest. There lies ancient birthplace of sin, home of forbidden secrets. To speak more is to call the wind!
But the White devours isle where key is kept. Deep within bowels of mighty Bismarck, it lies, beyond reach of the foolhardy!
And beyond ours...
Rejoice not in His gluttony, Lonu Vanu, for as stone gives way to water and wind, all yields to the White.
This he knows, Chief Sonu. Madness of Vundu bodes ill for all Vanu...
So Azys Lla is home to forbidden secrets, accessible only to the bearer of a key which the archbishop covets... Much as I would like to believe it safe within the belly of Bismarck, the knights of the Heavens' Ward wield primal powers. If we do not slay the whale and claim the key first, they surely will.
Quite how we will go about it is another matter. As was the case in our battle with Leviathan, we are out of our element, and this time, we have far fewer allies to call upon... Be that as it may, our customary approach still holds true. We must begin by learning more about the White. Let us each question the residents of the village, then regroup and share our findings anon.
If netherlings seek knowledge of the White, then speak with Kunu Vali, foremost keeper of tales.
But neglect not to present self with humility and respect. As sun yields to moon and moon to sun, netherlings must greet Kunu Vali with a bow.
