Come with me. I will guide you to your friends.
First a talking fish, and now a tortoise? <sigh>What have we got to lose?
Thank the Twelve you made it!I feared our Kojin friend might not find you in time.
Everything is going to be all right. Trust me...
Stay hidden and quiet. Understood?
Clear the road! Clear the road!
You there, Kojin! We seek four foreigners─one a brutish woman carrying an unconscious Namazu. Have you seen them?
Four foreigners, you say? Ah, yes! Very rude they were, making no apology as they barged past. They went that way, I think.
Many thanks, good sir!
With me! They cannot have gone far!
All is well. The Sekiseigumi will not return this way for some time,I should think.
You are of the East Aldenard Trading Company, yes? Come with me.I know a safer way.
You are returned─and with guests, I see.
Our meeting went about as well as expected. We've brought the Namazu who thought to betray us. When he wakes up, we'll see what he knows about Yugiri and Gosetsu.
Well done you. When I saw the Sekiseigumi out in force, I did begin to worry, but I see my fears were misplaced.
Actually, if it weren't for Soroban, we might not've gotten away...
'Twas my pleasure.
Yet I must ask, Soroban: why would you deceive the Sekiseigumi to help us─foreigners of whom you know naught?
Why, out of the kindness of my heart...is what I would like to say, but my motives are not so pure.
I chanced to witness your meeting with Hancock at the tavern,and saw an opportunity.
An opportunity?
Like many, I came to Kugane as a trader to make my fortune.Kojin of the Red may serve the Empire as mercenaries, but Kojin of the Blue walk a different path.
Regretfully, most here would rather not meet our gaze, much less do business.
So I seek the custom of those less predisposed to dismiss us outright.Namely, the East Aldenard Trading Company.
Quid pro quo, is it? Well, there is no denying that we owe you a debt. What say you, Hancock? Will you consider doing business with our entrepreneurial friend here?
Rest assured, Master Soroban, that in matters of trade the company does not discriminate. We would be honored to hear your proposal.
I promise you will not regret this, good sir!
Ah, yes─you sought passage across the Ruby Sea, did you not?I have a ship you can use.
You do? Well, then! Far be it from us to refuse! You have our deepest thanks.
And you mine!
I'm still annoyed he tried to deceive us, but at least we were prepared for it.
Even so, next time we should probably try to avoid running around Kugane in the middle of the night with half the city guard snapping at our heels...
Right, then. Gyodo should be coming round soon.
I think it's time we had a little chat, don't you?
Rise and shine, little fishy. I know you can hear me, so stop pretending to be asleep or I'll give you another ride on my boot.
...No! No, no, no more boots! All my secrets are yours for the asking!
Tell us what you know about Yugiri and Gosetsu. Every last detail.
And if I find out later that you lied to me─
No, no, no more lies! The clear, unvarnished truth! You have my word!
Only the samurai did I meet. Yes, yes, only him! He asked after a ship, so I provided an introduction to...to the Garleans...
You mean you led him into a trap, as you did us. Because you are an imperial spy.
No, no, I am no spy! It was just business! Fewer ships pass through Kugane these days, and we have struggled to make ends meet...
So when the Garleans offered a bounty for any Domans found in Kugane─
Oh, my mistake! You're not a spy, but a common cutthroat! Not that I'm surprised─you need half a brain to be a spy. So what happened to the samurai?
Such a cruel, vicious tongue you have...He would not go quietly, no, no. Blades were drawn, men were cut down, and the Sekiseigumi came. They took the samurai away.
Hold on a moment! You mean to tell me the ijin they arrested the other day was Gosetsu?
Oh, had I but known! If he is in the custody of the Sekiseigumi, I need only see to it that the requisite funds find their way into the right official's hands, and your friend will walk free.
As it is in Ul'dah, so it is in Kugane...but given the circumstances, it seems we have no choice but to resort to morally questionable means.
We'll make a pragmatist of you yet, Master Alphinaud!
You are free to wait here while I speak with the relevant official, but if you would rather wait for Gosetsu outside the barracks, we can go together.
I wouldn't put it past the imperials to try something again, so mayhap it would be best if Lyse, Forename, and I joined you.
All right, but what about Gyodo?
I will keep an eye on him for the time being. We can release him after you return with Gosetsu. He will doubtless have some choice words to say to the little fellow. Soroban─mayhap it would be prudent to prepare your ship for our immediate departure.
As you wish!
Everything is in order? Then let us be off. The Sekiseigumi Barracks are to the north.
I must ask that you wait here. You may be assured that this will not take long.
...Is it really going to be as simple as he says, do you think?
...He said it wouldn't take long, right? Because this feels a bit long to me.
Calm down, Lyse. Everything is going to be all right. Much as I hate to admit it, I share Hancock's dim view of government officials and their supposed incorruptibility.
From what I've gleaned of the Far East, they're probably exchanging lengthy pleasantries. There seems to be a correct way to do everything here, bribery being no exception. I say we leave them to it. Right, Forename?
Right, right. Everything's fine. Probably. I mean, it couldn't be as bad as the last time we stood around waiting for something to happen...
Have at you! AAAHHH!
Was that...?
That was Gosetsu! I'm sure of it! He's in trouble!
Lyse, wai─ <sigh> ...I suppose we should follow her, then.
Victory to the samurai!
Hah hah hah hah hah! How many is that, now? Ten in a row?
Gosetsu!
Oho! This is a surprise! What in blue blazes are you three doing here?
I could ask you the same thing! We've been looking all over for you─and then I suddenly heard you screaming!
Hmm... It would seem there has been a misunderstanding.Allow me to explain...
...So, in summary: you started a brawl with some off-duty imperial soldiers and were subsequently arrested by the Sekiseigumi, whom you somehow befriended and convinced to set you free if you could defeat a given number of them in single combat?
Ten bouts for my freedom, aye!'Tis but a pity you came too late to witness the last one.
And with that, I am free to go, yes?
Our word, once given, may not be broken─but we pray you make every effort to avoid future altercations.
Circumstances notwithstanding, my lord, we are honored and grateful to have witnessed firsthand the skill of a Doman samurai.
Ah. And we had just concluded negotiations.I gather my assistance was not required?
I must apologize. That you endured such trials and tribulations in search of me─
There's no need for that. You had no way of knowing we would come looking for you.
You were after a ship to take you to Doma, yes? It just so happens we have found a willing captain.
Truly? What fortune!
We will tell you all about it back at the company offices. Alphinaud and Tataru are waiting for us there.
Greetings, honored madam. Will you be entering the Ruby Bazaar offices?
Gosetsu! Thank the Twelve you are unharmed!
As you can see, Master Alphinaud, I am the very picture of health!
You! Vile fiend! Malevolent trickster! How kind the kami are to grant me vengeance so soon. But first, I demand you return the coin you so villainously embezzled from me!
Y-You have every right to be angry, good sir! Gladly would I return to you your coin...had I not been forced to repay certain gambling debts beforehand...
Setting that matter aside for the moment─where is Lady Yugiri? Was she not traveling with you?
For a time, aye, but we parted ways some while ago, the better to improve our chances of finding Lord Hien.
Lord Hien?
Forgive me, I have yet to explain. Lord Hien is the heir to Doma's throne, and our master.
His was a passionate voice for the cause of Doman liberation, and when we learned of the Emperor's death, it only grew louder...
So you seized upon the opportunity and rose up to reclaim your freedom...only for your hopes to be dashed when Zenos led his army unto your lands.
The crown prince was a merciless foe. Against him and the might of the XIIth, we had no chance.
Once Lord Hien understood this, he bade Yugiri take to the sea with as many of our people as possible. He, however, would stand and fight, that they might have more time to escape...
I remained by his side as well, and together we carried on our doomed war. And then, one day, in a fierce battle, we were separated. I knew not what became of him─only that he was beyond the Empire's reach, and that to find him, I would need Yugiri's aid.
The situation grows more perilous by the day, for the new viceroy, Yotsuyu, is a black-hearted villainess who delights in the torment of our people. There is naught she would not do to further her pursuit of Lord Hien.
Thank you. I believe that makes matters a good deal clearer.
It should please you to learn that we are come to aid the Doman Liberation Front in resuming their efforts to overthrow their imperial oppressors.
Then allow me to join you! My inquiries here bore no fruit, hence my desire to return to Othard.
Once there, I can lead you to our headquarters in Yanxia, where we shall all be reunited with Yugiri!
Mayhap not all. Alphinaud's talents would seem better applied here in Kugane, working closely with Tataru and Hancock to feed us intelligence. There is a Garlean embassy just down the road, after all─
While I appreciate the vote of confidence, I should be glad to accompany you all─
As a soldier in the field, so to speak? Come now, Brother, a competent commander assigns his soldiers the tasks best suited to them─as you of all people should know. And you are so very good at espionage and intrigue.
“...For we all must serve, each in our own way.” Very well. It would seem my place is here.
Soroban is waiting at the pier. Have fun, you lot!
I have been waiting for you, my friends. All preparations have been completed, and my ship awaits its passengers.
Shall we depart without further delay?
If you insist! With me, everyone! The Ruby Sea awaits!
I remember the water. How it turned crimson in the morning sun.
A shimmering sea of rubies, stretching from horizon to horizon.You could almost believe it went on forever...
But beyond that red expanse lay a land in turmoil.On the shores of Othard, our Doman brothers struggled in vain...
How wide and beautiful she is, the Ruby Sea! Filled with promise and adventure and treasures─many wonderful treasures!
Now, in order to reach the shores of Othard, you will need to cross the resplendent waters you see before you. However, this is easier said than done.
To set forth without making the necessary preparations is to invite the Confederacy to claim your vessel─and your life should you resist.
But this fate can be avoided by paying the Ruby Tithe, thereby earning you the blessing of the pirate lords.
So─let us go and greet them. Our destination is the isle to the west.
That doesn't look very far to me. Forename, why don't we jump in and swim for it? I've had my fill of boats.
Hmm, an excellent idea! I think you shall find the water to your liking.
I will use my ship to deliver those less inclined to the isle.
Right, this should be easy! And a good way to loosen up before the next fight, whenever it comes.
Twenty gil says I beat you there!
Ah, there you are. I trust you enjoyed yourselves.
Follow me, my friends. The one with whom we must speak is a man named Tansui.
