Stay behind me, Tsuyu!
Why...?You have no place here...
You must survive, Tsuyu!The kami spared us, and we cannot repay that boon in death!
Perhaps... But it is too late for me.There can be no redemption.
A nightbloom shall flower here upon the site of my demise...
In darkness blooms the spider lily...
From mortal husk I rise anew!
Suffused with night, I shall prevail!
In moonlight's chill, shine petals pale...
No. No... Not yet.Not. Yet.
This is far from over!My bloodied hands have much left to accomplish!
Am I sunk to my lowest, then...?
You really must learn to finish the job.
'Tis true that a gaudy mirror and a handful of crystals make for a feeble summoning, but even the weakest eikon is a god of sorts. A threat that must be put down.
My, my, such hostility! These beings are the sworn enemies of the Empire─I merely did my duty as an imperial officer.
Will you surrender to anger, then? Slay an anointed emissary to avenge a fallen foe?
You cannot, of course. To do so would burn the bridges we have labored so hard to build!
Ah, but I'm forgetting: they're already ash! This Doman woman has seen to that! The Empire cannot ally itself with any nation that refuses to renounce summoning. I believe I was most clear on that point!
It should have been mine.
The power he bestowed upon her... I should have been the one to govern Doma! I would have repaid his faith!
No one alive loves him more than I!
Instead, this harlot betrayed his trust!
Useless...piece of...filth!
Worthless whore!
Thank you, dear brother...for this precious gift. Vengeance.
These people...our people...they ignore the corruption which festers beneath the surface. Cast aside that which is dirty and broken. Speak not of things which would disrupt their dreary little lives.
Like you, Asahi...always pretending not to see. You were the first...the first I swore to kill.
Ahhh...such bliss. I had thought my hunger insatiable...but now...now I am satisfied.
You should feel honored, dear brother. I saved the last of my strength just...for you.
What's the matter? The witch of Doma will soon be dead.
He will mourn Tsuyu, perhaps...
Her happiness was never to be... Not in this world.
I wonder... Was the fruit as sweet...as he remembered...?
Lord Zenos...
Lord Zenos!
I am at your disposal.
Asahi. You were born of Doma, yes?
Yes, my lord! I am honored that you would remember me. How may I serve?
You are hereby appointed ambassador plenipotentiary, and empowered to speak with the voice of the Emperor. Return to your native land of Doma, and announce your intention to sue for peace.
...For peace?
Once negotiations are underway, you are to locate the acting viceroy.
She lives? That is to say─I will, my lord.
When you have found her, you will initiate a ritual to call forth an eikon. I will instruct you in the necessary steps.
Yotsuyu's faith is unreliable. But as a child raised to believe in the kami, she will serve as a vessel for one of the Kojin's gods. She need only wish it to be so.
The power will seem a gift, but the eikon's essence will consume her. She will be no more than a husk, a slave to whim and desire.
My lord, ever since the day you saw fit to save my miserable life, I have dreamed of repaying your benevolence. Upon my honor, I swear to devote myself wholly to your service. All that you command will be done, no matter the cost.
B-But...I fear the subtleties of your plan yet elude me. From the reports I have heard, the champion who aids the Doman resistance would make short work of a single eikon...
The eikon is merely a message. The pacifist teachings of the Populares spread through this city like a plague, and I would remind the people of the threat we face.
You will be my chosen agent─the hand which tolls the warning bell. The salvation of this world will not be won through the signing of treaties.
Your chosen agent!?
I will not fail you, my lord!
My... My master... Lord Zenos... He will come...for you.
You have prevailed, I see!
She is gone.
Wherefore did the kami spare us only to inflict this pain...?
Death shall not want for company this day. You spared us a worse disaster, but I fear our fledgling peace with the Empire was beyond saving.
Lord Hien!
Maxima, is it not? I assumed you long fled.
I entertain thoughts of escape even now. But our negotiations have yet to reach a satisfying conclusion. The ambassador insisted that the summoning spelled an end to our mission here, but it seemed to me there was more to the tale...
I have heard tell of this power you wield. And in your vision, you witnessed Lord Zenos giving these orders?
But how can that be? Zenos is dead. He took his own life after the battle in Ala Mhigo.
I saw his body with my own eyes!
Forgive me, but Lord Zenos is very much alive─he granted our party an audience prior to our departure. That he was gravely wounded is certain, but his recovery appeared to be proceeding apace.
I am afraid I share Lord Hien's confusion. The man's death was confirmed and his remains interred. These are matters of public record.
...Hmm. I have no doubt you believe what you say.
But what then is the explanation? That an impostor has infiltrated the innermost circle of the imperial court? The idea is inconceivable, absurd...but worthy of investigation nonetheless. Our movement can ill afford to have a highly placed pretender undermining our efforts...
Your efforts may yet bear fruit. Tell me, what is to become of our prisoner exchange? Though we have already taken custody of our conscripts, we have yet to release your imperial comrades. Do you still intend to collect them?
Ah. Yes, as the late ambassador's second-in-command, it falls to me to speak on the Empire's behalf. And I am happy to confirm our intent to proceed according to the original agreement.
Then let us be about it. 'Twould be a pity to abandon such a promising beginning.
Indeed. You have my thanks, Lord Hien. As soon as our people are secure aboard our airship, we shall depart straightways for Garlemald.
Tread lightly, Pilus. I sense treachery awaits you there.
Might I accompany you to the capital?
Alphinaud! Have you gone mad!?
Impostor or no, if Zenos was instructing Asahi on the finer points of ritual summoning, then experience tells us there is an Ascian waiting in the wings.
Without our knowledge and expertise, our new friends will be hard-pressed to contend with a foe for whom death is but a minor inconvenience. They need our help.
Were you indeed willing to share your knowledge of this enemy, we would not shun your counsel.
You truly mean to do this? In full knowledge of the danger?
I have seen the Warrior of Light risk her life on countless occasions. Next to her, I am scarce more than a distraction on the battlefield.
But in the meeting room or the audience chamber, there I can make a difference. I can strike bargains, forge ties, and change minds. And where better to do these things than in the home of our old enemy?
'Tis not for me to stop you─but I would have you consider an alternative arrangement. Rather than braving the Empire as a simple traveler, go forth as an emissary of Doma. Such a position should offer you some measure of protection.
Go, then. You've obviously made up your mind.
Just try not to do anything reckless, all right?
I shall be on my best behavior. Farewell, my friends.
I knew Asahi was planning some manner of treachery, but a summoning...? Thank the kami you were here, my friend. None of us would have escaped Yotsuyu's vengeance had you not intervened.
She was a pawn, aye, but she still had a choice, and she chose to submit to the ambassador's plan. 'Tis little wonder Gosetsu departed in silence.
I gather he left the same way he came: alone aboard a rowing boat. As for the conscripts, most made it to the sekibune before the battle began in earnest, but the vessel yet waits on the riverbank for those who did not flee in time.
Then I suggest we put this doleful place behind us, and make for the enclave together. 'Twould be a shame to miss the joyous reunion!
How often have I imagined this moment... Thank you for helping it come to pass.
Ah, there you are.
Gosetsu, your hair!
My friend... What have you done...?
An old man who cannot raise his blade has no place in the service of a young lord.
Thus did I decide to devote my remaining days to pilgrimage. I will walk this land, offering prayers of repose for all the souls who left this life in suffering.
...All of them?
A fulsome farewell makes for an enjoyable journey!
This is no forlorn and final farewell! Send me on my way with a smile, my friends!
Scarcely have we said our good-byes to Alphinaud, and you leave us too. Ah, but 'tis well that my companions find their own way forward. I must endeavor to do the same.
I have faith that you will find the best path for Doma without me, my lord. Pray forgive me this last act of selfishness, and grant me your blessing.
You have earned it. A thousand times over!
Go in peace, my friend. I shall make of Doma a land where children laugh and none need live in fear.
There is no better way to honor those who went before...
And with that I take my leave!
Ah, Gosetsu... Fair journey to you, my friend.
A bittersweet occasion...but there is yet ample cause to be grateful! Pray join us in the Kienkan. I would thank you properly.
Lord Hien is expecting you. May I show you in?
Our brothers and sisters are returned to us, and the dream of Doma's restoration is that much closer to being realized. It is a day that will live long in memory, and one that would never have dawned without the courageous actions of the Scions. On behalf of Doma and her people, we give you our deepest thanks.
Lest you think me complacent, I assure you, I have not forgotten the dark cloud on the horizon. That Zenos lives is a source of grave concern─mayhap the gravest─yet there is little to be done but wait for Alphinaud to send word. Until then, I plan to devote myself to fulfilling the promise I made to Gosetsu, by building a nation in which none need live in fear.
<sigh> I confess, I miss him already. But the thought that he has at last found peace goes some way to softening the blow.I wonder, did you ever stop to ask yourself why he showed Yotsuyu such kindness?
I believe the answer lies in past tragedy─specifically, the death of his wife and daughter during the invasion. Though he hid it well, they were never far from his thoughts, and in Yotsuyu's childlike mien, I believe he saw not a fallen tyrant, but the little girl who was lost to him.
After the loss of his family, Gosetsu devoted himself wholly to the service of his country. He suffered any hardship, strove beyond the limits of endurance without hesitation or complaint.
Though Tsuyu could never truly replace his daughter, I had hoped that with her at his side, he might live out the remainder of his days in relative contentment...
Would that the kami had been so minded. Even now, I labor to discern any meaning in Yotsuyu's fate. To deliver her from certain death, with no memory of her sins, only to leave her at the mercy of her stepbrother? Can that truly have been their will?
That I cannot tell you. The will of the kami is not for us to know.
But what I do know is that for a brief moment, a girl known as “Tsuyu” lived among us...
...And that she brought with her a whisper of respite for a grieving heart.
I think it's time we were going, don't you? We've done all we can here, and we have a lot to report.
But before we head back to the Rising Stones, let's call in at Rhalgr's Reach. We should be the ones to tell Lyse about Zenos. After everything we went through together, we owe her that.
Forename! Alisaie! You're back!...Hm? No Alphinaud?
It's good to see you, Lyse. As for my headstrong brother, he's off on what will almost certainly turn out to be a once-in-a-lifetime trip to Garlemald.
It's a long story, but...we have evidence that Zenos might still be alive.
What!? But that's─ If this is a joke─ Gods, this had better be a joke!
Look─I know what I saw, all right? We all saw it. And here you are saying he's alive and well and living the high life back in Garlemald!?
I know how ludicrous this sounds. I'm still having difficulty believing it myself. But while I might doubt the word of an imperial envoy, I'm inclined to trust Forename's. She saw the crown prince through the Echo─in a meeting that could only have taken place in the recent past.
No, it must have been─I don't know─some kind of...really convincing impostor. Zenos is dead. He had a great big hole in his neck! We buried him!
Aye, and someone went to the trouble of desecrating the bastard's grave, remember?
Thal's gilded...halls. Whatever are you talking about?
Thancred! What brings you to the Reach?
Alphinaud had me lending a hand at the Saltery─keeping an eye on the rebuilding work and so on─just until operations were up and running. And now that they are, I thought I might look in on you before wending my weary way back to headquarters.
Forgive me if I misheard, but is there some suggestion the late crown prince could have...gotten better? If so, might I suggest a quick look inside his coffin as our first order of business?
Eurgh. As much as I hated the man, it doesn't feel right defiling his grave. But if it will put this rumor to rest, I suppose we have to. And when there are no curious eyes about, if we can manage it.
Zenos is buried up at Bloodhowe in the Lochs. His grave was set apart from the others and left unmarked, so as not to upset the locals.
Then it shouldn't be too hard to find. Naago, you're in charge until I get back!
This is it... Gods, he'd better be in there. Someone scrawled all over the stone a while ago, but I had it scrubbed off, and thought no more about it...
So no one thought to check if the coffin was still occupied? Well then, we are presented with but one course of action.
And we had best be sure we are not observed in the doing of it. Shall we begin?
Oh dear. We seem to be missing a corpse.
Well it must be somewhere. I only hope it isn't walking around...
If there's no corpse, then...are we to conclude the rumors are true?
Not necessarily. We might still be dealing with a doppelganger of some kind. An agent could have been sent to dispose of the body in a bid to lend credence to the tale of Zenos's resurrection.
More and more, however, I find myself siding with Alphinaud's theory of Ascian possession. Speaking from experience, I can tell you they have no qualms about taking a living host, let alone a dead one...
You're saying an Ascian is walking around in Zenos's body?
It seems a distinct possibility. Once I have put this grave back the way we found it, I shall pay a visit to the people responsible for interring the crown prince.
Before leaping to any conclusions, I want to know for sure if a body was ever buried here...and how certain we are that Zenos was properly dead.
If he wasn't, that was some trick. He as good as cut his own head off. Anyway, Raubahn needs to hear about this. If you find anything out, send word to me at Rhalgr's Reach.
<sigh> I don't know why I'm surprised─with matters settling down in Doma, we were due another crisis.
Shall we make for the Rising Stones, then? It's past time we shared these developments with the others.
While I was waiting for you to arrive, I spoke with Urianger over linkpearl and gave him a full report. Y'shtola is on her way, and should be here any─ Ah.
Alisaie. Forename. 'Tis good to see you safe and well. What news have you from the East?
...Disturbing developments indeed. Given all that we know, I too would conclude that an Ascian now inhabits Zenos's body. A doppelganger might fool the crown prince's subordinates, but Forename? Nay, Alphinaud had the right of it.
Would that his wisdom extended to the question of his own safety. Capable though he has become, he ventures alone into the enemy's stronghold─and the shadowy web of the Paragons, like as not.
When it comes to making rash decisions, I'm hardly in a position to criticize, but...
I'm worried. I just wish there were something I could do for him besides pray.
I'm worried. I just wish there were something I could do for him besides pray.
We cannot suffer eikons to exist. Was I not clear on this point?
More than clear. The eikon in question was summarily dispatched by the Warrior of Light. The summoner is dead, and the rite beyond repeating.
Everything proceeded according to plan─every party behaving exactly as required.
My methods may seem extreme, but there is no cause for concern. I work only to ensure the salvation of this star.
