In the name...of the Light...I shall vanquish...the Darkness...
I shall deliver the world from its doom!
And who might you be!?
Whoever they are, they've come for our heads!
No you don't!
They are not of flesh and blood.
I know this magick.
The rings are like unto those that the Exarch did employ in our summoning.
Are you saying the Exarch is summoning them?
Nay. Yet the similarity can be no mere coincidence...
Should we make a stand here? Or retreat to the Crystarium?
The aether churns around us. More of them will appear ere long.
To stay would only place innocents in harm's way. We must fight this battle elsewhere.
Wait!
Take one of our airships! You can decide what to do on your flight to the Crystarium!
You are a capable leader in your own right, Master Chai. The citizens of Eulmore chose well.
It's settled, then. To the airship!
First the starshower, then these specters... And something tells me the worst is yet to come.
Urianger is right, though─the Exarch didn't send them. He would sooner harm himself than us.
But that only makes me want to get back to the Crystarium more quickly.
Fiery stars illuminating a blackened sky... By this vision, many and more shall have awakened to Hydaelyn's voice.
And as Elidibus hath designed, their hearts shall swell with the desire for salvation. The desire which doth empower him.
We must needs move swiftly against him, ere this mania seizeth every soul, and his might exceedeth all measure.
I think they were after us. Us specifically, I mean. And that's not all...
I sensed the aura of Light around them. As if they were blessed, like you and me.
If we are dealing with the selfsame magick employed by the Exarch, we may safely assume that our enemies are being summoned from other worlds.
Beyond that, all is speculation. But I would wager the fact that their summoning seems still less complete than our own has rendered them more susceptible to external influence. The suggestion to kill us, for example.
But I am musing again. Let us away ere more of them manifest.
We should first make for the western edge of Amh Araeng before bending our course towards the Crystarium.
This route will allow us to land and contend with the enemy if necessary. Given that they can appear out of thin air, we must be prepared for anything.
Cutting down that swordsman felt like slicing through thin air. I only wish his blade had felt similarly intangible.
We must lead them away from the civilians. The rest we can work out en route to the Crystarium.
There are sure to be a few surprises along the way, but we are nothing if not resourceful.
Damn it! Hang on to something!
Hah! When I saw that airship come down, I had my suspicions, but it is you!
Come, Ghun Gun! Our friends need help!
It's Cassard! And he's brought help from Mord Souq!
No small coup to roll that boulder over!
Be careful, yes?
I haven't the faintest what's going on, but you'd best keep moving!
