Come, servants of Darkness! I'll bathe in your vile blood!
I'll rend your flesh and crush your bones!
Darkness must die! Die, die, DIEEEEEE!
Ahhhhhh, my blood! It burns in my veins!
Many thanks to those who came to our aid.
Just a little further to go...
Dare I say we've seen the last of them?
They were all bathed in Light... Why?
There can be no doubt—'tis indeed the Exarch's magick.
That proved quite a detour, but all's well that ends well.
I think that's the last of them...
Apparently, even they have limits. Nevertheless, we should remain vigilant.
Urianger, something occurred to me while we were fighting. These enemies...
...Are heroes hailing from other shards, summoned hither to deliver this world from its doom.
Scant moments after the starshower did they appear─as yet more souls were inspired to walk the hero's path, no doubt.
Thus did hopes for salvation of realms near and far resonate and converge...lending still greater strength unto our adversary.
So that's Elidibus's game. But first things first: if the rings are the same as the Exarch's, then we need to ask him how that's possible.
The Crystarium is close. Let us press on.
They come!
So near and yet so far.
“In the chaos of conflict, one can always find an opening to exploit.”
Whoever taught you that is a wise man indeed. And good with a gunblade. But yes, I daresay we can create an opening wide enough for at least one of us to slip through.
That being you, of course─though others are welcome to follow in your wake. Ryne and I will keep our guests occupied.
Brave and selfless as ever. Yet the two of you may struggle to fool our foes, aetherically sensitive as they are.
Had you a comrade who could use destructive magicks to wreak havoc upon the ambient aether, on the other hand...
Very well, I too shall assist in the diversionary effort.
Oh, not this old dance again... Yes. Obviously, I'll stay and fight.
Alphinaud! I'm about to do a great many stupid and reckless things. Watch my back, would you?
And there you have it. Take care of yourself, my friend.
We'll do our best!
Rest assured I have no intention of expending any of mine this day.
I shall not overexert myself without good reason. As for the others...
Finished? Then let's begin!
...'Tis done.
Let me see! Let me see!
Yes! Your memories are preserved safely within! We've done it! We've done it at last!
I have inspected the other vessels. They are all ready to receive of our friends' memories.
Excellent, excellent!
I shall have my familiars bear word to them at once!
Elidibus...
It was not until I observed the battle between Emet-Selch and the Warrior of Darkness that I realized what I must do.
I will summon heroes from other worlds unto the First, just as you did.
Their presence shall serve to empower me─granting me the strength to crush my enemy.
Though it pains me to disappoint you, I feel compelled to explain that the magick in question requires no small amount of preparation.
Ah, but you assume I require my champions to be summoned in their entirety. I do not. Their souls needn't even be whole.
My purpose requires no more than their burning desire to vanquish evil.
This I shall sear upon the aether, raising thereby an army of phantom heroes, to whom I shall whisper, as I have to so many over the ages...
“Here lies darkness. It must be destroyed.”
And you expect me to cooperate?
I do not require your cooperation. Your death will suffice. The magick, I shall have from your corpse.
Go, Lugus!
We must flee!
...But what is this?
Argh... Unnngh...
My friend... How did you...?
No matter... Elidibus... He took us unawares...
It was all we could do...to raise a ward to hinder his steps... And so we fled...
But he took it... The vessel with the Exarch's memories...
Forgive me... Forgive me...
The vessel bears not only my memories, but my blood─the blood of Allagan royalty...granting him the means to control the tower.
With it, he has performed I know not how many summonings, calling forth heroes from across the rift.
And as you can see, the burden upon the tower is beginning to tell...
No. I won't let you go alone. Not this time.
If you mean to face him alone, I will not allow it. Not this time.
Elidibus has exploited the people's nobility. Twisted their purest intentions for terrible ends.
And I cannot let it stand. As Exarch, it is my duty to protect them. To defend their hopes and dreams.
So I'm going to the Crystal Tower, with or without your blessing─though I would rather it were with.
Thank you.
I'd join you...but I would only be a burden. Better that I remain here with my gremlins...
I shall send help. Stay strong, my friend, and take heart.
By binding Elidibus within the tower, we have done more than simply delay him.
Much like our adversary, I am not wont to show my hand prematurely. But the time has come to bring my strongest card to bear.
To the tower!
With your permission, I would make a brief stop at Accensor Gate─just long enough to send the guard to Beq Lugg's aid, you understand.
Were it not for them, we would never have escaped Elidibus, much less with the spirit vessels.
Though mine fell into our foe's clutches, Beq Lugg gathered up the rest at great risk to themself.
I must see that they are safe before we press on. Enough good people have given their lives that I might fulfill my duty.
