N-No, I won't... Urrrgh!
Looking for me, I presume.
Ahhh, the child who glimpsed the truth.
No, it cannot be!
She cameth unto me, as didst thou.
Alike in gifts, yet set upon different paths.
He speaks true, Warrior of Light. Like you, I have been blessed with the Echo.
The visions terrified me at first. They came without warning. I wondered what I had done to deserve them...
But I had no time to ponder such things once the Calamity came.
The land turned against us, and in a matter of hours, Falcon's Nest was buried under ten fulms of ice and snow. We had no choice but to flee for Ishgard.
We came to the wall, and while we searched for a way through, there was an avalanche. And then I was alone.
So I set forth for Dravania. I knew full well what might happen were I found, but I could not survive on my own.
I was found, of course─and not by a mere dragon, but by the great wyrm Hraesvelgr!
And it was then that I knew why I had been given this gift, for with it I heard his voice, and saw the truth through his eyes!
I was chosen to deliver this revelation to the people─to bring dragon and man together, as they once were, and should ever be!
It wasn't supposed to be like that! You have to believe me! It was...beyond my control...
Children taught to fear the skies, who saw their loved ones slaughtered...
Yet the Dravanians─though they know where the fault truly lies─fell upon them with such fury...
Men die, and their children forget. But we are everlasting. To us, then is as now.
Thou canst not comprehend the violation. The outrage. The fury.
I will make this right.
I am neither a saint nor a savior─just another sinner. Yet I will not forsake this cause. I cannot. I will see this cycle broken and peace restored.
I... We can do naught else, for we are now as one...
Mistress Surname! Praise Halone, you are alive! We came as swiftly as we could, but I see we are too late...
So they were lurking in the cellar of this farmhouse...
'Tis a pity Lady Iceheart escaped, but we must not let that detract from your accomplishment! We have them on the run!
You have dealt our foes a telling blow this day, my friend, and I shall see that your efforts are recognized.
Establishing an outpost in so remote a location could not have been easy. Tenacious devils.
The knights have matters here well in hand. Let us return to Falcon's Nest and share our discoveries with Ser Redwald.
Come! After tracking heretics across malms of ice and snow, I would say you are due a few hours' rest next to a warm fire.
Lord Artoirel, Mistress Surname! Full glad am I to see you both hale and healthy. What news?
...You mean to say you hunted the heretics down on your own, and slew them before reinforcements could arrive? By the Fury!
I believe we have made great strides toward purging these lands of heretics─and I mean to say as much when I deliver my report to my father and the Holy See.
As will I, Lord Artoirel. May it serve to remind our superiors what houses Durendaire and Fortemps could achieve through continued cooperation.
Indeed. I trust you and your knights are content to handle the rest?
We most certainly are, my lord.
During your short time with us, you and Mistress Surname have accomplished far more than I had thought possible. I cannot in good conscience impose upon you any longer. Pray return to Ishgard with my thanks.
As you wish, Ser Redwald. We thank you for your hospitality.
Mistress Surname...I would speak plain. From the first, I questioned your motives and your competence─unjustly, I now realize.
Rumors have a way of growing more fantastic as they spread, and quite frankly, those surrounding you beggar belief. But Haurchefant swore that all the stories were true. He championed your cause and begged Father to grant you patronage...
And he duly listened, because for all his wisdom, he has never been able to say no to my dear half-brother─the legacy of my father's sole indiscretion.
Mother hated him, of course. Even on her deathbed, she refused to acknowledge him. And...to be honest, she was not alone in her feelings.
But that is not the worst of it....At Camp Riversmeet, when we came upon the wounded knight, I knew immediately that one of us would have to pursue the heretics alone. An onerous task, fraught with danger...
And there you were─the savior of Eorzea and honored guest of House Fortemps. My new comrade-in-arms. Haurchefant's dear friend.
I told myself it was to be a test, but part of me...part of me hoped that you would fail.
Yet you accepted the task without a word of protest, nor any sign of fear. And you duly tracked the enemy down, faced him alone, and lived to tell the tale.
Plainly, Haurchefant had the right of it all along. That I doubted your strength bespeaks mine own weakness. But I will not doubt you again, Mistress Surname, on that you have my word.
