You must flee, all of you!
Princess Sphene!
Are you unharmed?
I am thanks to you, my dearest Otis!
My dearest...?
And so, in no small part due to the valor of the royal knights, the kingdom succeeds in repelling the invaders.
But their jubilation proves short-lived...
For in mad defiance, the enemy unleashes a forbidden weapon which brings about a terrible calamity. Full many lose their lives...
The good Queen Sphene, shining vision of hope, among them...
(Go to her! You're supposed to go to her!)
What's happening?
Is it over already?
And then...though the people grieved their queen's tragic passing, guided by her legacy of compassion...
Oh boy. They, um...worked hand-in-hand to overcome an age of hardship, and in time...they built a peaceful and prosperous Alexandria─a new Alexandria!
Pray forgive me... The memories...they had me in a vice grip...
All's well that ends well. I wouldn't dwell on it.
If I may ask... During your improvisation, you spoke of a new Alexandria.
And so I am given to wonder... Do you hail from a time after mine own?
We do. And we're living people, not Endless.
My word. That I should meet the living in this place...
There is another question I dread to speak aloud. A question I couldn't bring myself to pose to newcomers out of fear of the truth...
Alexandria... Does it still exist?
It does. It isn't quite the place you knew, but it endures.
The descendants of your people walk its streets and live each day to the fullest as proud Alexandrians.
They live... We live...
I-I had failed to protect my queen, but to hear that... It brings me a measure of peace.
You were there too, Otis. That is, an incarnation of you.
Of me? That's absurd...
But wait... Something comes back to me. When they were researching a means to resurrect Her Majesty─memory preservation or some such─I volunteered to be a test subject...
...No, it is a fog I cannot pierce. But pray tell me, this incarnation of myself─what was he like?
That's not all. He was a father in all but name to the new king, Gulool Ja.
Whatever you may have failed to do, you're the noblest of souls, Otis. And your deeds─your sacrifice─gave us hope that we sorely needed.
Aha... Ahahaha!
'Tis a miracle. Verily, there can be no other way to describe it.
It is. It really is. We bear the legacy of your other self, and we'd be glad to bear yours as well.
My, what comfort you offer! With such dependable souls to take up my shield, I may rest easy indeed!
I beg you, watch over our new king.
The war changed my queen. To her final moment, grief darkened her gentle countenance.
I've not the honor of knowing Gulool Ja, but I pray, that for all his days, he shall have cause to smile.
We'll see to it he does, Otis. I swear.
No explanations are required─I have intuited your purpose. There are paths only the living may walk.
Mine was a tumultuous life, replete with joy and sorrow both, but it ends on a bright note thanks to you.
If I have one regret, however, it is that I could not meet the new king. Send him my regards, won't you?
That was a marvelous play. 'Tis a shame that that will be the last performance, but it will forever be etched in my memories.
Suffice it to say I didn't expect you to appear on stage. You did a fine job, both of you!
I had a wonderful time, and I believe everyone here did too.
The fact that it's mostly children in Yesterland explains all the amusements here. But as happy as they seem, it's hard to think about their lives before this.
For if the form of an Endless reflects their happiest self, it means they died before they grew up, or grew up to find no greater happiness.
Well, we're here...
Are you having doubts?
No, I'll do what I came to do. It's just...the fonder you are of someone, the harder it is to say farewell.
If you're ready, Forename, then I am too.
Alright. Let me just say a word about those we met here.
That knight─he was the one who looked after Gulool Ja...
And now you follow in his footsteps.
And those of others as well.
We've come to know how much Sphene's people loved her. How much they yearned for peace. All of this, we'll carry with us.
I see.
Otis, the mechanical soldier, and Otis, the Endless... Through you, their paths reconverged at the last.
Upon our return, we must regale Gulool Ja with the heroic tale of Ser Otis Velona.
And that makes half...
...Two zones to go.
It's like waking up from a sweet dream to bitter reality...
But I'll never forget my time with the Endless, or the pain I feel now.
We're more than memories stored in machines. So long as someone remembers us and carries on our legacy, we'll never truly fade away.
We still have a ways to go. Let's keep moving.
So far there appears to be no change with the Meso Terminal.
So let's take the opportunity to visit another zone: Asyle Volcane, in the northeast.
The place with the volcano, eh? And I suppose we're using the zip line again.
You know it. Like before, I'll take care of the guard at the Gate of Remembrance. Come, let's head back.
How can she be so carefree about everything...?
I must say, it saddens me to see the scenery change in our wake.
That's a fiery place indeed... I wonder what it's themed upon.
That volcano really isn't real, right? All that smoke pouring out is just part of the glamour?
