Wait, I know you. You're the one who roughed up the guards!
After you left, your contingent friends came along. Our lives are a lot easier now thanks to them.
They understood our plight, and offered to help─whether we wanted to stay here or return home. For that, we're truly grateful.
We're grateful to you too, Alisaie. The trip across the lake is hardly pleasant, but you make it all the same to bring us provisions.
Oh, don't mention it. We're just glad we can help.
That said, we were actually hoping to ask a favor of you today...
We need a magitek snowcraft repaired─the one abandoned in Cerulea Ingens. We were told you might be up to the task.
Ah, so you want to ride the mammoth!
That's what we took to calling the crafts on account of their size.
As often as I used them on rigs, I know a thing or two about their maintenance. I'll see if I can get your mammoth roaring again─it's the least I can do to repay your kindness.
Wonderful! Please come with us back to Camp Broken Glass, and we'll take it from there.
So far so good, Forename! Let's be on our way.
Thank goodness we were able to find someone to help with repairs.
Don't you worry─the mammoth is in good hands!
You mortals are more sensitive to the cold than I realized. My body is made differently, so I feel nothing.
Welcome back.
I presume this is the engineer who will help us with the craft?
I'll do everything I can to get her up and running again!
But I doubt I'll be able to do so quickly─at least on my own. The mammoth is big, and so are its parts. Some strong backs should make the work go faster.
You have ours.
You've finished learning about the mountain, I take it?
Aye, we have a solid grasp of that area, as well as the site of the snowcraft.
My back is perhaps not as strong as some, but I should be glad to stand guard for voidsent and other unruly wildlife.
Much obliged, miss. Then let's all head over to the mammoth and assess what needs fixing.
They have matters here well in hand. Which means we can resume our duties.
Would you care to assist us, Forename?
How about you, Zero?
I will assist you as well. As payment for answering my question.
It's hardly something that demands payment...but we'd be glad for your contribution nonetheless.
I can't say I understand Alisaie's answer, but a debt is a debt.
At first I didn't know what to make of Zero, but her frankness speaks to me. I like her!
My thanks again for agreeing to help.
The Ilsabard contingent brings in shipments of food, medicine, and other necessities by airship.
We have yet to deliver a share of supplies to Tertium, and I would appreciate it if one of you could assist us with the task today.
I'll do it.
Well, Forename. It looks like you're with me, then.
Voidsent sightings have been increasing by the day, which is why I had a mind to go out and patrol the Eblan Rime. Shall we?
Voidsent were spotted here not long ago. Considering the proximity to Camp Broken Glass, everyone is understandably concerned.
But hopefully not for much longer. You follow this road eastward, and I'll have a look to the north. If you should encounter any voidsent, I won't begrudge you for dispatching them without me.
But hopefully not for much longer. You follow this road eastward, and I'll have a look to the north. If you should encounter any voidsent, I won't begrudge you for dispatching them without me.
But hopefully not for much longer. You follow this road eastward, and I'll have a look to the north. If you should encounter any voidsent, I won't begrudge you for dispatching them without me.
All finished, are we? Good.
The cold doesn't let up out here, does it...
They've the means to keep everyone warm at Camp Broken Glass and Tertium. But the measures are still only temporary.
Subsisting on charity, dreading the day the sympathy of others is exhausted─it's no way to live. They need lasting safety and security.
Though things will never be as they once were...
If we can restore a modicum of normalcy to their lives, maybe that will be enough for them to move forward.
If we're to achieve that, we have to work harder. I have to work harder.
L-Lest you misunderstand, I wasn't fishing for a compliment... As I said, I'm doing this because I want to.
Still...I appreciate your support.
Oh, come now, you think I don't know my own limits?
Still...I appreciate your concern.
Well, our work here is done. We should be heading back.
I hope Alphinaud and Zero haven't gotten into any trouble.
I cannot imagine how awful it must have been to serve as Zenos's avatar. To not only suffer him, but so much else...
She's a fighter all right. Like you and me.
She's a fighter all right. Like you and me.
