How to reach the top of Khadga!? After what has happened, that should be the last place anyone sane would want to be...
But yes, I am familiar with another route that should still be passable. I was once afraid of heights, you see, and used it to build up my courage.
Though I cannot say I have the courage to brave it under these conditions! I'll take you to where the route starts, but no further, all right?
Hello? Can you hear me?
We were too late. The vault has been destroyed, the alchemical furnace with it.
This was their true objective─to deny us entry into the void.
Cagnazzo and Azdaja's eye were a diversion.
A means to detain us in Garlemald while they went to work here.
To reduce the vault to rubble... That which you hunt is no ordinary foe. Have care.
Such an exquisite sight... A canvas of vibrant colors. As was our world too, once...
I am. Rubicante, the archfiend of fire.
A monster in flesh, yet in spirit I remain a man. A prisoner of the past.
Such tears I wept when Darkness consumed the world. Until Lord Golbez came and spoke of salvation.
Thus do I walk proudly at his side, to see his dream fulfilled.
Your heart is pure. For benevolent cause you seek the dragon.
But I cannot allow you to have it─cannot allow you to interfere. If you would continue, then there is but one recourse.
I shall await you at the summit. Come, mortal! Come and weigh your righteousness against mine!
You stayed the course—as I knew you would. As will I. Come!
The archfiend of fire has no equal!
The glory of fire!
The glory of fire!
Flames to lick at your heels.
Flames to lick at your heels.
Burn!
Flames to lick at your heels.
To me, servants of flame!
My flames shall consume all!
All will burn!
Allow me to show you real flame!
You've strength worthy enough of pride.
But will it be enough?
I am one with the flames...
You are the first to behold this form.
You are the first to behold this form.
The flames rise higher!
Look now on my essence made pure...
Destruction incarnate!
To ashes with you!
Flames to lick at your heels.
It seems I was a step too slow.
To defeat all of us archfiends... You are strong indeed.
You would know my lord's true purpose?
Very well. The knowledge will not change the outcome. Listen, then, and learn how all began...
You would know your enemy's heart?
Very well. It bleeds more than you can ever understand, but I will speak, and you will listen, and learn how all began...
How long has it been since the world was undone...
Since Light and life gave way to Darkness and undeath. Since we were reduced to beasts befouled, squabbling over what scant aether remains...
But you are different. You remember who you were, and the paradise for which you fought.
That world will never be ours again. But we need not suffer in this purgatory of death and rebirth forever.
Join me, and together we shall seek the promised land!
There is no hope─no freedom from the wheel. You speak a fantasy.
I speak truth. The Ascians' revelation. There are other worlds than this. Ours is but one of fourteen.
There is no greater proof than the whispers we hear─born of a neighboring reality.
A reality to which we may journey if we can but break down the barrier that divides us.
You meant it, then? We will take this world as our own?
Gahahaha! Count me in!
In return for your strength, I offer you opportunity to pursue your own ends in service to a greater cause...
A glorious kingdom of Light, wherein all may know death's sweet embrace!
...And thus did we begin our great work.
You intend to forsake the Thirteenth and conquer the Source?
Just so. Our home is a lost cause, our only choice to begin anew.
In this world, where we may reclaim our mortality.
You served Golbez of your own volition...
As atonement for my failures. I tried to be a hero. Tried to stop the war...but I could not.
So in turn you wage another?
A means to a final end. The wheel of depravity must be broken.
Even the most exalted succumb. We eat and eat and deepen the stain upon our souls, until only the hunger remains. Is this to be our fate for all eternity?
...I don't know. About this and a great many things.
But I do know that it's wrong to damn another to save yourself.
Not everything need be a trade. This I learned from the people of this world.
Even without a contract, without any expectation of personal gain, they labor for one another.
I didn't understand it at first─and perhaps I still don't. But if I'm to achieve something, I'd rather do it their way. Else I am already a hunger-maddened beast.
Perhaps we have indeed surrendered to the hunger after a fashion.
Make for our moon. There you will find both Lord Golbez and your dragon.
To be so viciously slandered... Pride demands I prove my virtue at the last.
Never. Our triumph is at hand, and the knowledge will avail you naught.
But to be so viciously slandered... Pride demands I prove my virtue at the last.
And perhaps your own will resonate with his...and draw forth that singular jewel which abides deep within his heart.
A desire which lies beyond his quest to free us from our purgatory. A desire...all his own...
My inquiries delayed me. I'm not accustomed to conversation.
But I'm glad I arrived in time to speak with Rubicante...
As much as I understand his motives, I believe there's a better way─yours.
The future you strive for is one I wish to see.
And I want to know why I feel this way. Why this fire burns in my breast.
There's nothing more for us here. What of Alzadaal's Legacy? Has there been word from Y'shtola and the others?
I see... Frustrating, perhaps, but better that the gate be destroyed than used to unleash more voidsent.
We should return to Meghaduta and rejoin the others.
It seems the others are already inside. Let's join them.
It is good to see you both returned hale and whole.
Your friends arrived not long ago, and are already with the satrap. Shall I show you in?
Thank goodness you're both all right.
Unfortunately, we have nothing further to report apart from the loss of the gate.
But tell us─how did you fare on the mountain?
Golbez aspires to deliver voidsent unto the Source...
Where they may die and return to the Lifestream to be reborn.
Far be it from me to deny them, but the cost to our people would be beyond unconscionable.
Indeed. Voidsent themselves are inherently dangerous, never mind the chaos sure to follow should the barrier 'twixt our worlds be shattered. 'Twould be naught less than a calamity.
Certainly not. That said, our task has been rendered rather difficult.
The simplest way would, of course, be to strike at Golbez himself. That said, our task has been rendered rather difficult.
Indeed... Rubicante hath deprived us of a means to cross into the void.
Cagnazzo's feint. That was doubtless what he meant when he said his part was done.
Golbez sacrificed two archfiends just to stop us. He must need more time to break the barrier to our world.
Then the days ahead will be critical. We must find a way back to the Thirteenth.
We could employ another Atomos, but that approach would only be viable if we found another planar fissure. An unlikely prospect.
Better we explore other avenues.
If you will excuse my absence, I shall return to Sharlayan to look for information.
By all means. Meanwhile, I shall seek the counsel of our alchemists.
Time is of the essence, so─wish me luck.
I'm no scholar. I'll find another way to keep myself busy here.
I don't doubt it. She's a veritable “Researcher of Light.”
Heh, rest assured I never shirk my training. I will be ready for whatever awaits.
Zero. May we call upon thee when next we venture unto the Thirteenth?
Aye. And in case you're wondering, I won't ask for further payment.
I will go for myself. To try and understand why I spoke the words I said to Rubicante...
And the fire I felt within when you all came to my aid in Garlemald.
While our esteemed sorceress battles her tomes, let us see to our own affairs.
I will not fail you again, Sister...
Before you leave, I would once more express my gratitude.
By your hand has Thavnair been saved yet again.
But before you delivered my people, you helped me rediscover hope. When the sight of my sister's eye left me bereft and adrift for a time.
We may have lost the gate in Alzadaal's Legacy, but there must be another way to travel to the void. And together, we will find it.
For now, I bid you rest and recover your strength. I, too, shall have my vessel improved ahead of our next foray.
To achieve his ends, Golbez has sacrificed his four generals. Such a ruthless foe is unpredictable in the extreme. But no matter what he plots, we shall do our utmost to see that he does not succeed.
To achieve his ends, Golbez has sacrificed his four generals. Such a ruthless foe is unpredictable in the extreme. But no matter what he plots, we shall do our utmost to see that he does not succeed.
Cagnazzo and Rubicante have joined with the great flow...
In this world, 'tis the ravenous who are useful. And few were as ravenous as they.
You were fine pawns, my archfiends, and you have played your parts to perfection.
But with the goal in sight, I need no minions to do my bidding.
Hereon, I shall walk alone.
At long, long last...the end draws nigh.
The end to life on that star. And the end to my suffering...
Forename, 'tis good to see you. Have you any news from Old Sharlayan?
We've yet to hear from Y'shtola regarding her search for a means to return to the void. I must confess that her silence has left me feeling...restless.
Nor am I alone in this─Estinien has such an excess of energy that he has been helping to train our soldiers with nary a grumble.
As for Zero...
Is something the matter?
No, no. Forename paid us a visit, and so I was apprising her of recent developments─or the lack thereof.
Are you heading somewhere?
Aye. To replenish my aether.
...Would you like to come?
A rare but most welcome invitation! Timely too, I might add.
I myself was thinking of venturing out into the city. It would be my pleasure to join you.
You will accompany us, of course?
Come, then. I've an errand to run at the bazaar first.
If you would gauge the city's prosperity, there is no surer way than to visit the bazaar and observe the people. This I learned from Ahewann and his predecessors.
