Ah, you must be the adventurer Baderon promised to send along. Forename Surname, wasn't it?
You honored his word, so that's a good start. I'm Staelwyrn, the “old bastard,” as Baderon likely described me, and this here is my humble orchard.
A good number of the lads and lasses workin' here once terrorized the high seas. And if you're wonderin' why I employ these scrags, well, they used to crew my pirate ship.
But the Calamity did for our ship, like it did so many others, and I was sore wounded into the bargain.
I had to feed myself and my crew somehow, and Admiral Merlwyb's initiative to get us landlocked buccaneers workin' the fields seemed too fine an offer to refuse.
Well, it turns out you can take the pirate away from the sea, but you can't take the sea away from the pirate. A lot of my blokes just never took to tendin' the soil, you see.
And unfortunately, the botanists I called in to train 'em have been wringin' their hands in black despair. With so much work pilin' up, I need a tougher soul like you to step in and help where it's needed.
I've a mind to set you a task, Surname, but before I do, I need to be sure you're properly kitted out.
Pirates don't care to parley with dandies, you understand. It might well be that the ones here have traded in their cutlasses for coulters, but they're still rogues at heart.
I know a solid set of gear when I see it. Come back when you think you're more suitably equipped.
Let's have a look at you, shall we?
Oho! As long as you're this well covered, I won't feel any guilt throwin' you to the sharks.
Erstwhile buccaneers are an ornery lot. They rage in love for the sea, and care little for the laws of the land.
But they respect strength, and by the looks of you, I'd say you'll have little trouble gettin' their attention.
Ah, Surname. That aura of confidence tells me you've not been idle since last we met.
I hope I've read you aright, for I've a task that requires the attention of a capable adventurer. Might that adventurer be you?
Good to hear. Then I shall lay before you the sorry tale.
You will have heard rumors of the abductions. Aye, citizens have been disappearin' from every corner of Limsa Lominsa, as if plucked from the face of Hydaelyn, boots and all, by an unseen hand.
And what's this got to do with Summerford Farms, you might ask. Well, that remains to be seen, but it seems a collection of right unsavory fellows with azure-tattooed faces has been creepin' up to the edges of the fields and spyin' on my yeomen.
Now, I doubt anyone would enjoy bein' scrutinized by such savages at the best of times, but the farmhands are convinced that they're the kidnappers of rumor, come for their hides.
Needless to say, they're beside 'emselves with worry, and their work's sufferin' for it─which is the very last thing I need when my old crewmen are still gettin' used to their new jobs. 'Tis a struggle to get 'em to leave the farmhouse of a mornin'.
That is, as they say, where you come in. Would you be willin' to investigate these tattooed thugs for me?
Good lass. The sooner we get to the bottom of this, the sooner this place will start to resemble a workin' farm again.
I suggest you begin by havin' a look around Seasong Grotto. If reports are to be believed, our unwelcome visitors have occupied the place.
Be careful, though, Surname─I couldn't say for sure what manner of miscreants we're dealin' with here. If they are the kidnappers...well, just be on your guard, all right?
