The entrance to the tunnel, madam? It's just over here.
Had we not seen the heretics breaking the surface, we would never have noticed it...
Per Ser Aymeric's orders, we will stand guard outside. Please be aware that even should you encounter significant resistance, we cannot leave our post.
It's breathtaking.
This is no time for sightseeing, my friend.
Did the heretics make camp here?
It's freezing in here.
Thal's bloody balls, all that ice...
I feared I'd slip and break my neck.
Where did it even come from?
Did that goobbue just jump out of a snowball?
Why must the heretics reside in such bitter climes?
Be mindful of its arms.
A snowball fight is not what I was expecting...
Aye. But nevertheless, we were victorious.
Hm? A dead end?
There they are!
My, what terrible fangs!
The legendary hoarhound... This is not a foe to be trifled with.
The tales do not do you justice, Warrior of Light.
Yes, I know who you are. And you know who I am.
I was given the name Ysayle, but I earned the name Iceheart.
This endless cycle of hatred, of bloodshed, of sorrow─ You would see it continue, O noble Warrior of Light?
I would not. I will not. I will bring an end to this war between dragon and man─no matter the cost.
In time, you will come to understand that what we do, we do for the greater good.
For Eorzea. For Hydaelyn.
That took longer than I expected. What news, Forename?
So Iceheart is but a pseudonym─not that it matters.
That she managed to escape is regrettable, but from your description of that beast, you did well to come as close as you did.
In any case, now that you have cleared a path, the Temple Knights can begin to survey the tunnels in earnest.
Mayhap they will even find a route past the ice wall. Wouldn't that do wonders for their fight against the heretics.
The Crystal Braves would certainly share the credit for it too. Twelve be praised, Forename─we may yet turn this situation to our advantage.
...Assuming we stop Iceheart before she summons Shiva, of course.
Needless to say, our fellow Scions have not been idle. Minfilia and Urianger have been busy perusing the archives of House Fortemps, gathering what information they can on Shiva.
Which reminds me, if you were intending to trudge back to Camp Dragonhead to report on the day's events─don't. The Antecedent should be here any minute. I can only assume some people enjoy subjecting themselves to this cold. <shiver>
Antecedent. You come to us straight from the archives of House Fortemps. I trust your time there proved fruitful.
Would that it had. Urianger and I scoured countless texts, but what we found was of questionable veracity.
Accounts of Shiva's life and deeds are sparse and contradictory, only agreeing upon one point...
She lay down with a dragon─the gravest of all sins, according to the Ishgardian faith.
Yet in the eyes of Iceheart's followers, this was a holy act─the blessed union of man and dragon.
How such a thing could even be possible is quite another question. Suffice it to say, I very much doubt that we will find a useful answer in the archives of House Fortemps.
Much knowledge has been lost over the centuries─though in this case, one wonders if it is by circumstance or design.
You said that Iceheart took a moment to plead her case prior to escaping, did you not?
Hm. Viewed without prejudice, most would agree that bringing an end to an endless war serves the greater good.
I think Ser Aymeric might take issue with her methods.
I do not care if a few stragglers manage to escape. Until the sappers confirm that a tunnel is safe, the men are not to search it.
