Celebrate? That's the last thing on my mind! Please, go and bother someone else with that ghoulish makeup.
Oh my, aren't you in a fright─and not the good kind, either. What happened, lass? Papa Gruff is here to help.
You...you'll really help? Well, I could certainly do worse than a clown. I've come from the Greatloam Growery, although “fled from” is probably more appropriate.
I was tilling the fields like always, when I heard a frightful voice from behind me. I turned around to meet it, and came face-to-face with the foulest monster I've ever seen!
When I regained my senses, I was here, my throat hoarse from screaming. No power in the realm can persuade me to return, not while that horror wanders unchecked.
A monster...? But we haven't visited the Growery yet. What could it have been, do you think?
Impossible. Those illusions are no more capable of free movement than the pumpkins they sprang from. I believe something much more real may be lurking in Gridania.
You may very well be right. Those illusions I summoned are no more capable of free movement than the pumpkins they sprang from.
Yes, no doubt there are voidsent running amok.
Here I am, tying myself into knots trying to learn the subtleties of spookery, while some uncouth brute goes rampaging through the Twelveswood with nary a thought towards artistry.
If we forgive such behavior, our efforts to find glee in terror will have been for naught.
Tremble in fear no longer, lass! We shall investigate the matter.
Truly? You're the first people to believe my claims are more than seasonal mischief. Oh, I knew Father was wrong when he said all clowns were villains. Thank you!
Again those words ring strangely in my ears...however, 'tis not an entirely unpleasant sensation.
I know this wasn't why you were sent to assist me, but there's no telling how many of my kind we may find. A single void─er, clown can only achieve so much, so would you lend me your aid in case the situation gets undesirably bloody?
Thank you...
...Look at me, expressing gratitude, and to one of your kind no less. Well, no matter. Let us depart to the Greatloam Growery and settle this.
That frightful thing snuck up on me at the Greatloam Growery... I fear it will be some time yet until I can work up the courage to return.
I see nothing out of the ordinary here...but I know they are close.
Our roguish quarry is close, doubtless lying in wait somewhere to catch us unawares. Once they show themselves, don't indulge them with anything but a face of stony indifference.
