...Ain't seen you around before. Takes a certain kind of woman to walk into a place like this uninvited.
See any roses 'round here? 'Cause I don't. Piss off.
Oh aye? I'll bet you are. Best of luck to you, soldier.
...Courage, you say? Well, that's in short supply these days. Better to keep your head down and go along to survive.
Call me a coward too, if you like, 'cause I'll not speak on it more─at least not here.
Outside Radiata, behind those barricades over yonder, on the other hand...
Hey. Was that who I think it was?
Well, that's a relief─or a trap. Either way, I'll find Alphinaud and Alisaie. We'll meet you there.
Not followed, were you? Good.
That all of you, is it? Let's get to it, then. Name yourselves.
We are the Scions of the Seventh Dawn. Friends of Marshal Tarupin.
Name's Stark. Stark Woad. The rest you know, or we wouldn't be here.
This is about Specula Imperatoris and the cannon, isn't it?
Just so. Can you tell us what happened?
Aye. I overheard soldiers talking while working in the mess. The ceruleum pipeline fueling the cannon was destroyed by an unidentified male insurgent, they said.
One man single-handedly disabled the cannon? That beggars belief!
Nevertheless, that's what they said. It took a while, but they've finally put the fires out, and the engineers have been working day and night to repair it.
Wish I could tell you more, but the incident had everyone jumping at shadows and afraid to say much more. To make matters worse, the Ala Mhigan help have been sent home indefinitely.
So the cannon could already be fully operational...
We need to sneak inside Castrum Abania to ensure the cannon is no longer a threat to our troops. Can you help us?
Aye, that much I can do. I've pieced together a map of the interior over the years, and I know for a fact that there are multiple points of entry.
Impressive...If we split into several groups, that may improve our odds of reaching the fire control center.
We may be few in number, but I have faith that we can see this through!
We have that for which we came. All that remains is to make our preparations.
Lyse and her unit will make for our primary objective, the fire control center.
At the same time, we will enter the castrum by way of the ventilation ducts, whereupon we will proceed into weapons research and create a diversion.
If all goes to plan, our parties will subsequently converge, and together we will secure the cannon before finally notifying the Alliance that they are clear to attack.
Sounds simple enough. I'll go and brief Naago on the details.
The rest of you come with me. We'll need to deal with the magitek patrols before you can infiltrate the castrum.
Almost there, friends. Your point of entry is just around the bend up ahead. The last patrol should be here any moment.
Once you've dealt with them, we'll be clear to advance...assuming they keep to their usual schedule. Might be prudent to stand watch for a moment after, just in case.
By Rhalgr, I knew you lot were good, but I never expected you to defeat them so swiftly...
Forename is the finest warrior I know, and I should like to think we have learned something from our time in her company... Now─where is the entrance to the ducts?
Right behind you. I've mapped the branches, so you should have no trouble reaching the hangars or any number of other places.
Understood. Thank you again for your invaluable assistance.
As discussed, Forename, we shall infiltrate the castrum and cause as much chaos as possible.
This will draw the imperials away from Lyse and her men, thereby allowing them to safely reach the fire control center.
If there's nothing else, I'll return to the Resistance forces and show them to their entrance. May Rhalgr guide you to victory!
This is your last chance to make your preparations, Forename. When you and yours are ready, we shall begin.
All right, let's raise hells!
Aye! The more enemies we can draw, the better!
They're weapon transport containers.
Best destroy them here and now!
This appears to be a testing facility.
Well then, let's put this thing through its paces!
