During the chaos of the Sixth Umbral Calamity, Archon Nyunkrepf, founder of Sharlayan, bore witness to the madness and savagery of men brought to the brink of despair. Upon raising a settlement on an island in the Northern Empty, he instructed his people thus:
Renounce the ways of war, and pursue enlightenment through knowledge and reason.
The Sharlayans took to heart the words of their savior, and thenceforth served as stewards of wisdom.
Upon a foundation of accumulated learning, they built a homeland unlike any other─a nation born from strength of minds, rather than strength of arms.
With knowledge of economics came shrewd trading. With knowledge of agriculture came bountiful crops. Engineering brought wells and sewers, ending squabbles over water.
Wealth of expertise could be bartered for wealth in coin. And the more their wisdom spread throughout the world, the more mankind as a whole would thrive.
And so it was that no matter the trials and tribulations of the age, the citizens of Sharlayan would live by their founder's teachings. For the sake of a better tomorrow─for the sake of a brighter star─they would eschew the tools of war, and with knowledge deliver the world.
And so it was that no matter the trials and tribulations of the age, the citizens of Sharlayan would live by their founder's teachings. For the sake of a better tomorrow─for the sake of a brighter star─they would eschew the tools of war, and with knowledge deliver the world.
Sorry, were you waiting long?
I wanted to make sure I'd borrowed at least a few promising volumes. Alphinaud and Krile should also be along shortly.
I was delayed in similar fashion. As far as I could see, no titles in the Archon stacks mentioned the Final Days specifically, so we have no choice but to start with the tangentially relevant tomes─if they are even that.
At present, the plan is to skim through as quickly as we dare, and share our discoveries as we make them.
It would've been nice to invite everyone to the estate. Plenty of comfortable places to read, and a ready supply of hot tea...
Oh, I was always quite fond of reading outside.
...But it's not about the little pleasures, is it? You miss your home.
It's been...difficult. After our arrival, we managed to speak with one of the family servants and ask how things were.
It seems our dear father has instructed the staff that even if Alphinaud and I were to return to Sharlayan, we were not to be allowed across the threshold.
A harsh measure, indeed. I hope that our efforts to understand his position─and that of the Forum─will perhaps lead to a reconciliation...
We'll mend this rift one day. I'm certain of it.
And what of you, G'raha? Have you been to visit your family? Or do they not live here in the city?
Ah, well... My situation is also somewhat complicated. I was raised in Sharlayan, yes, but I was born rather further away.
In the southern reaches of Ilsabard, in fact. For generations, my people have dwelt in Corvos, the coastal region opposite the island of Thavnair.
The Allagans founded a city in that fertile land, and by ship, brought in the subjugated tribes of the Miqo'te to serve as laborers.
Of course, the massive earthquakes of the Fourth Umbral Calamity brought an end to the empire's reign. And when the Fifth Calamity froze the seas solid, many of the tribes still living in Corvos braved the journey back to Eorzea...
My ancestors, however, chose to remain, that they might prevent the remnants of Allagan technology from being misused.
Isn't Corvos under Garlean rule?
For the past fifty years, yes. Some semblance of local culture remains, as is the case for most imperial provinces, but Garlemald renamed the region “Locus Amoenus.”
...When I was a boy, a nearby town came under the jurisdiction of an illustrious imperial family─the nobles of House Darnus.
House Darnus demonstrated a singular interest in Allagan civilization, and so my tribe was forced to consider a plan of action.
For some time already, voices had been raised in favor of abandoning our ancient customs─after all, the Allagan Eye no longer passed to our eldest children as reliably as it once had.
Fear of discovery eventually tipped the scales, and the decision was made to bury our ties to the knowledge and traditions of Allag.
As the last child born with the Allagan Eye, I was given over to the custody of friends in the Students of Baldesion, who had me registered as a Sharlayan citizen.
I never even considered... Forgive me, it was an unkind question.
Even Thancred was taken in by Archon Louisoix, was he not? Stories of adopted waifs and rescued orphans are more common among Sharlayans than you might think.
Yet regardless of our origins, we are all provided with an equal opportunity to learn. And with sufficient perspicacity, we outsiders can even earn the vaunted title of “Archon.”
'Tis exactly why I have such love for this country. And why I wish it to remain a nation of which its citizens can be proud.
Hear, hear! Another good reason to get to the bottom of the Forum's stubbornness─aside from the trifling matter of our impending doom.
Excuse us while we try to make some headway into these books, Forename. More company should be arriving any moment now!
Hm? What else do I know of Corvos? Precious little, I am afraid─I've not returned since Master Galuf first brought me here.
I can tell you that Corvosi rebels still seek to slip the yoke of their imperial masters, though the fighting is far less fierce than it once was.
Oh, and they have carpets. Flying carpets! The legends are quite extraordinary!
There are others better suited to poring over old history books, so I thought I'd try my luck with more recent events. If I can find anything to better inform the Forum's baffling behavior...
We've returned with our selections!
Although I must say, the pickings were quite slim indeed─Mistress Krile has already flicked through every history book devoted to disasters, and more than a few which barely made mention of them.
As such, we will be looking into research papers on the Umbral Calamities, as well as articles written by prominent Forum members. Perhaps their knowledge of the Final Days comes from an unexpected source...
Speaking of which, might I ask you a few questions related to the Final Days?
I'm the only one here who didn't witness the events of Amaurot firsthand, and fear I may be overlooking critical details.
My thanks! Now, where to begin...
First things first─what kind of phenomena did the ancients encounter as the Final Days drew nigh?
Yes, the unfolding catastrophe wrought havoc on all manner of life...
The chaos extended to the ancients themselves, causing their powers of creation to spiral out of control. Fear and despair manifested in terrible, tangible fashion—meteors raining from the sky, fire erupting from the ground, indescribable abominations prowling the streets...
Ahem, I believe Hydaelyn and Zodiark were summoned after the Final Days had arrived. Quite deliberately, in fact.
If we are speaking of phenomena caused by the Final Days, the chaos of creation magicks run rampant is what first comes to mind. Fear and despair manifested in terrible, tangible fashion─meteors raining from the sky, fire erupting from the ground, indescribable abominations prowling the streets...
Well, that certainly is an accurate─if somewhat ambiguous─impression.
To expound upon that explanation, the unfolding catastrophe wrought havoc on all manner of life...
The chaos extended to the ancients themselves, causing their powers of creation to spiral out of control. Fear and despair manifested in terrible, tangible fashion─meteors raining from the sky, fire erupting from the ground, indescribable abominations prowling the streets...
That more or less aligns with my understanding. If only the arts of creation had survived until the present day, we might have had something substantial to analyze.
To the best of our knowledge, however, those techniques were not preserved or passed on. Y'shtola surmises that the closest known magick is that of the summoning rituals promulgated by the Ascians.
Was there aught else of note which heralded the approach of the Final Days?
I...think you may be misremembering. As I recall, 'twas more of a gradual spread.
The Amaurotines spoke of a “keening” sound that rose from the land itself just before a region was visited by catastrophe. We never did hear this sound ourselves, of course, thrust as we were into the midst of the madness...
Ah, yes, the Amaurotines spoke of it, didn't they? We never did hear this sound ourselves, of course, thrust as we were into the midst of the madness...
But it seems that each and every one of the catastrophes was preceded by this ominous noise. Eventually it resounded all across the star, and not even Amaurot was spared.
M-Me!? Well, as you wish...
The Amaurotines were debating the cause of an anomaly which had been observed in the lands across the sea. By this fact alone, we can deduce that the Final Days occurred not all at once the world over, but rather had a point of origin from which it began to spread.
Others also spoke of a “keening” sound rising from the land itself, just before a region was visited by catastrophe. We never did hear this sound ourselves, of course, thrust as we were into the midst of the madness...
So the ground was crying out, you say? To be considered the harbinger of doom, it must have been quite distinctive...and probably quite loud.
I'll have to speak with one of Noumenon's mammets, and ask after any books which make mention of such a sound.
Last but not least, would you describe how the ancients sought to quell this unprecedented calamity? What definitive action did they take?
Yes, with Elidibus serving as His heart. So many gave themselves in sacrifice to bring Him into being...
Ah, I believe it was Zodiark who was summoned in response to the Final Days. Many sacrificed themselves to bring Him into being, with Elidibus serving as His heart...
Surely you can't be serious! That was the Seventh Umbral Calamity─hardly an event of the distant past. And even if Dalamud had existed at the time, bringing down a moon of any kind would surely only make things worse!
The ancients summoned Zodiark in response to the Final Days. Many sacrificed themselves to bring Him into being, with Elidibus serving as His heart...
We do not know exactly how Zodiark brought salvation to the star, only that by His godlike will were the laws of nature set aright.
Then, once the balance was redressed, the ancients offered up a further sacrifice to heal the ravages of the Final Days.
Lives sprouted anew, and it was these fledgling souls they intended to render unto Zodiark. A “trade” that would have allowed them to resurrect the shades of loved ones absorbed by the primal...
...Or might have, had Venat and her fellows not manifested their opposition in the form of Hydaelyn.
Thank you─both of you─for the detailed review. I feel much more confident now in my understanding of events.
With all that freshly in mind, it does make me wonder what the Telophoroi truly mean when they speak of bringing back the Final Days.
We've seen what they're doing with those towers of theirs. Is forcing people to summon primals a kind of catalyst? Are they attempting to mirror the conditions caused by unstable creation magicks?
Or are they simply using the Final Days as a figure of speech? A convenient metaphor for the scale of destruction they plan to unleash...
<sigh> But this is all just pointless conjecture at this stage. Let us return our attention to the Forum, shall we?
We should keep an eye out for Y'shtola, but 'tis time we began studying these research papers...
It really is comforting to have all these dedicated assistants on hand. Right, then! Enough chatting, more reading!
Many Forum members are also researchers or professors. If they know aught of the Final Days, then that knowledge might surface in their writing. That is my hope, anyway...
I'm the last, am I? Well, my extended search of the Archon stacks produced one or two possibly useful books.
...But I wouldn't get your hopes up.
If you recall, Urianger learned of the Source's reflections from The Gerun Oracles. For its potential to cause panic and confusion, that tome was deemed apocrypha and sealed away in the Great Gubal Library.
'Tis even less likely that knowledge of the unsundered world, not to mention the horrors of the Final Days, would be left sitting on a shelf for any curious scholar to find.
It stands to reason then that my colleagues─be they Archons or councilors─should perforce be largely ignorant of the subject.
Yet when you confronted Master Fourchenault with knowledge of the Telophoroi and their machinations, he scoffed at the suggestion that they posed a threat. He seemed adamant that the Forum would know if the Final Days were truly upon us.
Which only supports the conclusion that whatever privileged wisdom is guiding the Forum's behavior, it is being kept secret from the rest of the nation.
...Not that I mean to excuse myself from reading duty. Whether they contain mention of the Final Days or no, these books could yet hold something of value.
You weren't thinking of leaving, were you? There's plenty of work for everyone.
You weren't thinking of leaving, were you? There's plenty of work for everyone.
Thank you for your help, but I think I can manage the rest without your assistance. If I were you, I'd steal a few quiet moments for myself...
I've found naught of interest so far. I think Y'shtola might be right about not getting our hopes up.
......
......
Ngh...
Oh dear, you look exhausted! But what about your studies? Were you able to find any books on the subjects I mentioned?
Then the day was well spent! Should you wish to read them again, a mammet at the reference desk will point you in the right direction.
For the moment, though, I suggest you take a well-deserved rest─we might be occupied with our research for quite some time...
Hm, well I did find one paper focused on the world before the advent of the First Umbral Calamity, but it reads more like a work of fanciful fiction than an actual academic supposition...
Ready for a tea break, Forename? I know I am.
Honestly, my neck and shoulders are going to calcify if I don't stretch my legs and walk around for a bit...
You know the Last Stand down in the harbor, don't you? Come and meet me near the outside tables, and I'll treat you to their coffee. It's quite good!
As busy as ever, I see. How very Sharlayan that no other gourmet café has sprung up to compete for customers...
Actually, this crowd gives me an idea: before we place an order, why don't we ask a few questions and gauge the mood of the city?
I'm interested to hear what the average citizen has to say about the Telophoroi. We might even learn something new. Worth a try, don't you think?
Someone here at the café should be willing to speak with us. Let's ask around!
No rest for a hero, eh? Do what you must. I'll wait for you at the Last Stand.
Right. Ready to pick up from where we left off?
