I've been waiting for you.
Hello! A fellow we met at Proof suggested that we come here...
Yes, the High Luminary commanded that I watch for your arrival. As the chroniclers of our people, it has ever been my family's duty to pass on the teachings of the murals from generation to generation.
They really are magnificent. And together they tell the tale of your people's history?
They are the events which shaped us. I would share them with you ere you continue on your way.
Please! We would love to hear all about it.
Then I will begin.
This first mural depicts a time more than eleven hundred years ago. An age of great prosperity for the Yok Huy...
Blessed with size and strength unmatched by other peoples, our ancestors marched forth and brought much of Yok Tural under their dominion.
Then, when all before them had been conquered, they turned their gaze northwards, seeking to expand their territory and power.
Here we see the expedition to Xak Tural. Unable to cross the strait by ship, our forefathers set to building a bridge to the northern lands─a grand labor which consumed the greater part of a century.
Zorgor the Boundless. We still make use of that bridge in Tuliyollal for travel. I can't imagine the patience and dedication it took to complete a work of that scale.
But I've never heard of any Yok Huy living in Xak Tural. What happened to the ones who went north?
Look upon this next mural and behold the answer.
The scene suggests that many giants perished all at once. What manner of enemy could have repelled their invasion?
A foe unnamed and unseen. When the expedition pushed forth into Xak Tural those thousand years ago, its soldiers were felled by disease.
Some terrible illness?
No. No virulent plague or newly arisen blight. For the local Tonawawta and Shetona, it was but a mild affliction of the sort that comes with the turning of the seasons.
What manifested for them as slight fevers and coughs, however, proved deadly to our people.
Out of every ten Yok Huy who joined that northern campaign, nine succumbed to the infection. Those who survived continued to suffer, finding it difficult to sire offspring.
I've heard of this before. Lacking an inherited resistance, visitors to distant lands can fall deathly ill to diseases a local might shrug off.
These events might also have given rise to the practice of cremation, rather than the burial, of mortal remains.
This final mural depicts the return of our grieving brethren to Urqopacha.
The reason they first left─why they had fought so long and pushed so far─was to ensure peace for our homeland.
This undertaking began in ancient times. When our forebears learned they shared the continent with peoples unalike to us in appearance or custom, they feared invasion was inevitable.
Rather than meekly await their fate, they decided to strike the first blow. Yet as they fought on and on, the old idea of peace drifted further and further away.
Only after the disaster in Xak Tural and their withdrawal to the mountains did they come to understand...
The peace we envisioned had been ours for the taking all along. It was here, in the place which birthed us; here, in the stones upon which we recorded our days; here, in this tranquil life we had traded for conquest and conflict.
When you do nothing but fight, it can blind you to what's right before your eyes...
And so we return to the present. I trust you found this brief history of our people enlightening?
I'm always glad to learn more about my fellow Turali─how you've lived until now, and how you wish to live from now on!
Then I believe you are ready to proceed. The High Luminary bids you meet him upon the summit of Worqor Zormor.
I had a feeling we'd end up scaling that big old mountain... Well, it's a feat worthy of the name!
Follow the trail south of here to begin your ascent, but be wary: beyond the entryway, the mountainside is home to ferocious beasts both mundane and otherwise.
We'll keep that in mind! Thank you for the warning─and the lesson!
Finally, we know where we're going─to the top of Worqor Zormor!
Your genuine interest in our history is...refreshing.
If I'd known we'd be climbing Worqor Zormor, I might not have raced up and down all those trails. My feet are killing me.
<pant> This thin mountain air...is going to be the death of me...
Wha─ How long have you been standing there!? I was just taking in the scenery, is all!
Come on─we don't want to fall too far behind Alphinaud and the others!
The true size of a mountain is never more apparent than when you're standing right at its foot...
I hope we come across Bakool Ja Ja on our way to the summit─we still owe him for the troubles he caused us in Kozama'uka.
I fear I won't be of much use to you as a guide past this point. Even in Tuliyollal, there is precious little written about the sacred peak of Worqor Zormor. Beyond whimsical poetry, that is.
I cast a rejuvenating spell on Wuk Lamat. Even our indomitable Third Promise is feeling the strain of these slopes.
You remember how the chronicler was saying that the more they fought, the further away they moved from their idea of peace?
It occurs to me that if Zoraal Ja is attempting the Feat of Proof, then he will have heard that same lesson.
I can only hope that it's made him reconsider his own stance on “educating” people through war.
Gods, that is one tall mountain. And we're supposed to climb it?
