A message, Admiral! I judged it best that it be delivered at once!
I am listening.
According to the Yellowjackets, a man has appeared who claims to have defeated Leviathan.
...One of the Company of Heroes?
The details are yet hazy, Admiral. We have dispatched one of our own to question the individual.
Hm. I am disinclined to put any store by this claim. And even should it be true, it is as Y'shtola said: none save the Company of Heroes have bested Leviathan, and we know how they went about it. If this man is of their number, what could he tell us that we do not know already?
...And yet, having wagered Limsa's survival on two ships, some rope, and a pile of crystals, can we afford to ignore this man? If his testimony could yield us any manner of advantage, should we not hear it? Damn it all...
The twin vessel will soon be ready. We have no time to wait for the Maelstrom's report on this supposed primal-slayer's claims. Forename─seek him out and learn what he knows. At the very least, it will spare you the torment of waiting for the reckoning in idleness.
The man you are looking for is believed to be a resident of the Grey Fleet, in lower La Noscea. The storm private sent to question him should already be in the vicinity. May your journey prove fruitful!
Now look here, you! Ye'll have yer bloody story...right after ye carry those sacks of grain over to the mill!
B-But, sir...that's what you said before you had me pick those oranges for you. And before I mucked out the chocobo stables. And before I rolled that millstone over to the mill. And also before─
Gods, man! I've worked three days straight without a wink of sleep! Three days! An' do ye hear me complainin'!?
Bah... I s'pose some of us just ain't made for the rougher stuff. All right, all right...I'll give ye what ye want. Never let it be said that ol' Trachtoum ain't a generous soul.
Now prick up yer ears, 'cause I won't be repeatin' meself. Too modest, see? Besides, there's only so much epicness a man can take in one sittin', ye ken?
Ahem! The tale of Trachtoum's epic victory over the dread primal Leviabeetus!
Now, Leviabeetus's huge, make no mistake. To give ye an idea how big, each of his scales is about as wide across as me member's long─an' that's no mean feat, let me tell ye!
When I fought him, I could barely see fer all the brine he was peltin' me with. Must've been a lagoon's worth at least. He even knocked me trusty axe out of me hands at one stage... 'Course, that proved to be a grave mistake... Heh heh heh...
Wh-What happened next!?
Why, I grabbed him by the tail an' tied him up in knots! But not wantin' to take all the glory fer meself, I let me mates in the Company of Heroes handle the rest. Like I said, I'm modest as well as heroic! Mayhap too modest... Now, there's some as say ye can never truly beat Leviabeetus─that ye've got to learn to live with him an' make the best of a bad situation. Not the Company, though!
Uwaaaaaah! It...it's you!
I'm sorry! I didn't mean it! I was just enjoyin' the attention, is all! I take back everythin' I said!
I was never part of the Company of Heroes! I'm no marauder! I'm actually a complete coward! I'm nothin'! I'm chocobo dung! No, I'm the maggots ye find wrigglin' in chocobo dung! I have to lie to women to tumble 'em, an' that don't happen much! Me member's tiny, it's pathetic!
I sure as hells didn't fight Leviabeetus...but...but I have seen him with me own eyes!
'Twas a fair few years back, when I was workin' as a baker's hand. I was shirkin' me duties one day, loiterin' about the harbor, when I saw it...
...A great big massive sea serpent some malms off the coast, with a fleet of galleons makin' straight for it, cannons firin'... I was so bloody scared, I soiled meself right there an' then!
Wha─? Oh, gods... Jus' rememberin' that day made me soil meself all over again!
H-Hey, wait... If yer here askin' after Leviabeetus...it means yer plannin' to fight him, ain't ye?
Well...take care! He really is terrible! Dreadful, I tell ye! If yer not careful, ye'll end up in his gullet or at the bottom of the sea!
Why, you worthless, lying whoreson! I can't believe you made me handle chocobo dung!
Why, you worthless, lying whoreson! I can't believe you made me handle chocobo dung!
Why, you worthless, lying whoreson! I can't believe you made me handle chocobo dung!
Why, you worthless, lying whoreson! I can't believe you made me handle chocobo dung!
Why, you worthless, lying whoreson! I can't believe you made me handle chocobo dung!
I'm told your jaunt to the Grey Fleet proved fruitless. My sympathies, lass. I'll wager it served to take your mind off the events of recent days, though... But enough of that nonsense. The moment of truth is upon us.
The twin vessel─the Whorleater, I call her─is complete, and she surpasses all my expectations. In addition to her prodigious tonzage, she has been fitted with a platform, that you and yours might maneuver freely in battle. I would mention also that she is nigh unsinkable, but I'm not one to tempt fate.
The Whorleater and her crew stand ready, my friend. Just give the word, and we shall bear you to Leviathan.
Ah...I know that look. You are ready!
Having been constructed in some haste, the Whorleater may not be pretty, but I assure you she's capable.
She has been fitted with what our friends at Naldiq & Vymelli's are calling an “elemental converter.” Assuming the thing works, it will use the power of the corrupted crystals on board to rob Leviathan of his hold over water.
Depending on how the battle unfolds, you may well need to activate the device manually. Keep that in mind.
It is expected that the Sahagin and their thralls will attempt to come to Leviathan's defense. Accordingly, the Maelstrom will once again employ diversions. Thancred and Y'shtola, I would have you assist in this effort.
If it is to fulfill its purpose, your diversionary force must not want for numbers. By your leave, I too would volunteer my blade.
We would welcome it. Having seen you fight in Sapsa, I daresay the fishbacks will find your presence highly diverting. Thancred and Y'shtola, if you would join the 3rd Levy, and Lady Yugiri, the 5th.
...But what words have I for the woman who has made a sport of slaying gods? Only these: go warily, for the sea is an unforgiving place to wage war. May the Navigator guide you through the storm, Warrior of Light.
I would echo the Admiral's sentiments, and add a few words of mine own. Know that we all have the utmost faith in you, Forename. May the Crystal bless and keep you!
