No! I don't want to die!
Mummy!!!
We almost have them!
Your skill at arms is impressive, adventurer. Our wayward youths could learn much from a woman like you.
The battle is won, but it would be unwise to linger here. Let us return to Little Ala Mhigo.
W-Wait! We've come all this way─we have to get the crystals! They're right there, ripe for the picking!
Have you learned nothing, Wilred? Did you not see those tempered wretches?
Such is the fate of those who are touched by a god. Is that what you desire for yourself and your friends?
What!? N-No one said anything about─ The masked man told us we could defeat the Empire if we summoned Rhalgr! He swore─
Enough. I will hear the rest of this sorry tale back in Little Ala Mhigo. I daresay Forename will wish to hear it as well.
No more lies, Wilred. Tell us everything.
I was outside with the others when he appeared─the masked stranger.
He told us about summoning Rhalgr, about using crystals, and then just...vanished. We never saw him again.
I wanted so desperately to believe that we could raise ourselves from this squalor that I never stopped to question his motives. But I should have known─there's no solution, nothing we can do to change our lot. Our people are doomed to live and die like beasts...
Listen to me, Wilred. Our home may be lost to us, but it takes more than stones and mortar to define who we are. No matter where we may be, Ala Mhigo lives on within us all.
It is for you to decide what to make of this legacy. But whatever you choose to do with your life, never forget that you owe it to this adventurer─an outsider.
I...I won't. I promise.
Thank you for saving me. And...sorry I tried to kill you.
My thanks as well, friend. It gives us hope to know that there are kind souls such as you out there. Little Ala Mhigo may not have much in the way of comfort, but you will always be welcome here.
Gundobald: Would that we had more information to offer, but what Wilred told you is the extent of our knowledge of the masked stranger.
Gundobald: Left unchecked, that man will bring about great pain and suffering. I pray that you'll find and put a swift end to the creature─for the sake of the young ones who died by his poisoned words.
Minfilia: Welcome back, Forename! I'm reliably informed the investigation took you to Quarrymill and Little Ala Mhigo.
Minfilia: So tell me, were you able to learn aught of Lahabrea?
Minfilia: Planted the knowledge of summoning in impressionable young minds, you say? Precisely the kind of deception the Ascians would employ...
Minfilia: While many of the ills that ail the land can be attributed to the Calamity, some are being brought about by a malign will.
Minfilia: We must needs delve deeper into this, while things remain quiet on the primal front.
Tataru: All work and no play makes Minfilia a dull Scion.
Minfilia: Hm? Did you say something?
Tataru: N-Nothing, my lady!
Minfilia: Ahem. Mayhap we ought to rest awhile before speaking further of the investigation.
While you were tending to business in Thanalan, some new information arrived courtesy of our friends the sylphs.
An individual fitting Lahabrea's description has been sighted in the North Shroud. This sighting comes in the wake of a series of mysterious deaths in the selfsame area. My instincts tell me that our man is involved.
I would have you continue your investigation where you left off. Twelve willing, we will pick up Lahabrea's trail once more.
Noraxia can furnish you with the details. Pray speak with her, and take it from there. As always, be careful out there, Forename.
Walking one is to investigate sinister one? Then heed well this one's words.
This one is friends with a walking one in the Ashcrown Consortium. According to friendly one, a digging one named Medrod had an encounter with a scary masked one. This masked one is most certainly sinister one!
Walking one should go and speak with digging one Medrod. Digging one is to be found at Fallgourd Float in the North Shroud.
