We're set to sail! All aboard for Sharlayan!
It's time.
Then we must delay no longer. We will contact you the moment we learn aught of value. Wish us luck.
Have a safe journey! And please, please be careful
And so you venture forth unto the unknown.
A fate beyond the horizon that cannot be divined. A fuure undefined and in flux.
In uncertain times, naught but the simplest words of wisdom will suffice.
That which lives is destined to die. Love leads to loss. Every beginning has an end.
Treasure every moment, every step of your descent.
And there in the depths where souls and stars rest—find your truth.
Hear...
Feel...
Think...
The day has barely dawned, my fellow earlier riser.
Though we're hardly alone in that. Envious of those still sleeping soundly, no doubt.
Called out to you, you say? Hmm. I've heard nothing myself.
In any case, I daresay the sea air will do you good. Why not join the others on deck? Sharlayan should be coming into view at any moment.
My voice yet reaches you. I am glad.
Hear, feel, think...
And thus do we meet face-to-face at last. My Warrior of Light, guided by the Crystal.
After your sojourn in the First, I believe you have your answer...
You have visited the First. You...have every right to say that.
You have gained an understanding of what I truly am. What Hydaelyn has always been. A primal.
Zodiark was created to forestall the apocalypse which threatened the ancient world. And I was brought forth to bind Him.
Yet seven times now, those who would orchestrate a return to that bygone era have rejoined a shard to the god I had sundered.
The greater His strength grows, the swifter does mine own diminish. The power to draw your mind into the rift betwixt is no longer mine to wield.
Yet though it taxes me sorely, I dare not leave these words unsaid.
Even bereft of my guidance, you and your companions have accepted the burden of this star's troubled past. A conjunction has begun to form; an intertwining of your time and mine.
Wheels shudder and turn. Conflict looms─monumental─which will decide the fate of this world and all life upon it.
When you truly understand what is at stake, and your journey has prepared you to surmount the insurmountable...
Then shall I honor the promise made in another time. Another age.
Cast yer peepers to the fore, folks! Sharlayan's just over yonder!
I will not keep you further. Your traveler's heart must yearn to behold this unfamiliar land.
We shall meet again...and soon.
What a fine morning. Oof. Still a bit stiff, though.
And a good morning to you, too. Taken a look at the island already?
Then let's go, let's go! Might still be room in the prow if we're lucky.
Ah! The sleepers have arisen!
There she is. Good ol' Sharlayan.
Oh, I see it!
Home. Home at last. Well...maybe not in Father's eyes...but we'll manage on our own, if we must.
You do know you're not alone in this, don't you?
Indeed, 'tis as Ser Estinien sayeth. Forget not the comrades who boarded this ship at your side, I prithee.
Thank you, my friends. We are ever grateful for your steadfast support.
Upon arrival, we will be disembarking into the heart of Sharlayan proper.
There is no greater concentration of wisdom in all the world. I am confident that, somewhere within that center of knowledge and learning, we will find the answers we seek.
Sharlayan, the solitary island nation of the northern seas.
Where under the watchful gaze of Thaliak, patron deity of scholars, academics hoard all manner of knowledge and secrets.
Once, they deigned to accept foreign students into a distant colony maintained in the Dravanian hinterlands.
How swiftly they abandoned it once the first Garlean boot set hostile foot on Ala Mhigan soil.
So averse to the prosecution of war, these men of wisdom. Your would-be allies...
I thought they'd never let us off the ship... What's next, then? Entry applications?
Hopefully they find no cause to deny us.
Hasn't Sharlayan all but severed relations with foreign powers? Those of us without direct ties─myself included─may be refused outright...
'Tis true that, as a nation, Sharlayan only forms trade agreements with a select few neutral countries.
But from a practical standpoint, an island cannot afford to be overly strict with its borders. Especially not if that island's people are wholly devoted to the accumulation of knowledge.
If one submits the proper paperwork, with satisfactory evidence of identity and intent, then foreigners may be granted entry.
...“May.”
Quite. So let us be absolutely clear on these points before we proceed.
The immigration officer will ask for your affiliation and your purpose of visit. Considering Sharlayan's views on intervention, I strongly suggest we avoid any mention of the Scions.
Krile has laid the groundwork for us to act as associates of the Students of Baldesion, and our ostensible reason for being here is to aid in their order's restoration.
G'raha Tia, it might expedite our progress should an actual Student be seen at the head of our little group. Would you mind leading the way?
Of course. The immigration offices were this way, as I recall. Shall we?
Greetings! We've just arrived, and are eager to make our way into the city. Would you be so kind as to process our entry applications?
