Thank you, my child. When the fighting started, I tried to run and hide, but fell and could not regain my feet...
I thought for sure that we would all be slaughtered, but the pirates drove them off! I never thought I would see the day when the Confederacy came to our aid!
I remember you! You're the one who saved me from the Doman catchers!
Thanks to you, we managed to rescue the fishermen and my kidnapped comrades─one of whom joined the Confederacy with me long ago. It would've broken my heart to have had to bury him...
Oh, and if you're looking for the captain, you'll find him in the tavern.
Back already? What have you learned?
At the tavern, you say? In that case, we should find Lyse and speak with him together.
My Eorzean friends! Saw the smoke, did you? A pity you did not come sooner─though I gather you were busy elsewhere.
Gosetsu! You're alive! You're all alive...
And full of vim and vigor, hah hah hah!Did I not tell you I was no stranger to chains?
The fighting cannot have lasted long. Where are all the imperials?
Fled. They stood their ground for a time─until it became clear that their Kojin reinforcements would not be coming.
We took some few casualties, but my deeper regret is having let Yotsuyu slip through my fingers. That bodyguard of hers may be a half-wit, but he's a mean bastard on the battlefield.
In any event, I imagine all involved are satisfied with this outcome. So far as the Empire is concerned, the Confederacy attacked Isari in retaliation for the viceroy's actions─and without the aid of insurrectionists, I might add.
Suffice it to say, we are prepared to be the subject of their undivided attention for the foreseeable future.
Hm! An impossible claim, yet one spoken with such conviction that I cannot choose but believe it.
Nor you. Our fates are intertwined now. If you fall, so do we.
I understand. You have your doubts. We are pirates, after all, with hardly the strength of a nation.
But when we saw what you few had accomplished, our hearts could not choose but to stir in our breasts.
Your assistance would be most welcome. Nevertheless, we shall do our utmost to spare you undue danger─we are already in your debt.
Nay, little miss, all debts are paid. For by your deeds, many still live who elsewise would not. Let both parties count their blessings, and may fortune continue to favor us all.
You still seek to bring freedom to our people, then? You will go to Yanxia?
I have faith that our allies yet live.Once we have found them, we will plan our next step.
Yanxia was the crucible of the rebellion. What happened here pales in comparison to what Yotsuyu did there.
Remember this: fear changes men. Have care in whom you place your trust.
And with that, we must take our wounded home. Oh! Your shellback friend sends his regards, and looks forward to your next meeting. Try not to die before then, eh?
You did well, Forename. Were it not for the tremendous strength and bravery of you and yours, many innocent souls would have suffered terrible fates.
Though I knew the Confederacy would be loath to meet the imperials in battle, I also knew that if any could win them over, it would be you.
Truly, yours is a heroic spirit that inspires men to rise above their circumstances─to strive for something greater! It will be an honor to travel with you again.
Now then, let us not squander the Confederacy's gift. Yanxia and my countrymen await!
There is a tunnel to the southwest. We need but follow it to reach our destination. With me!
There is a tunnel to the southwest. We need but follow it to reach our destination. With me!
We cannot rest here for long. This place is not safe...
...Mayhap nowhere is, if thieves can breach our vaults. Nevertheless, it is our duty to protect these treasures, and we shall not fail for want of effort.
So this is why you abandoned your posts─and without a word of explanation at that. Rather thoughtless of you, was it not?
Lady Yotsuyu! Pray forgive us our absence, but our home was under attack─our vaults plundered by outsiders!
Did you even pause to consider the possibility that it might be a diversion? What is the point of contracting your services if you are not here when they are required?
It is my solemn charge to bring these vermin to heel─to torment them, body and soul, until all they hold dear is as bitter ashes in their mouths. And then you go and ruin everything!
...Well, there's naught to be gained in belaboring the point.All that remains is to administer your punishment.
Wait! My lady!
No...no, it's no good. There's just no joy in it. No release.
There...there needs to be some investment. They were negligent imbeciles deserving of punishment, but it was hardly personal. Ten thousand such Kojin could not satisfy me half so well as a single Doman.
And what do we have here? One of the vaunted treasures of the Red?The craftsmanship is certainly impressive...Mayhap we can use it to make amends.
How long before Lord Zenos reinstates me, d'you reckon? I've got unfinished business back in Eorzea...
Is serving me really so unbearable?At least pretend to enjoy it, you witless lump!
If you are so desperate to earn a way back to Eorzea, then be quiet and do as you're told. And bring that sword while you're at it!
I remember the silence. How the talking stopped when we first set foot on the plains of Yanxia.
Before us stood another wall, and through a great magitek field we glimpsed Doma Castle.I'll never forget the sight...or the anger I felt that day.
Life. Liberty. Hope. So much lost, so much taken.As we walked through that war-torn land, no one said a word...
Hmm... Yes, this is far enough.
Ere we proceed further, I should speak of Yanxia and what became of her. Of what lies beyond that great wall at the heart of Doma.
And we should be glad to hear it, but is it wise for us to have this conversation here, on the road, out in the open?
Once, your caution would be warranted...but no longer.
Zenos did not linger after he crushed the rebellion. He appointed Yotsuyu to act in his stead and quit these lands for “fresh sport.”
The acting viceroy was no less merciless than her master. Without warning, her men would march into villages and search for “radical elements,” killing and torturing any who dared resist. And then, as quickly as they had come, they left.
Satisfied that the memory of the purges would keep the people in line, she relaxed her grip on Yanxia. What need for the leash when the dog is broken...
The village of Namai lies to the west. Though I doubt the imperials are present, let us proceed with caution.
There she is─the humble village of Namai! How delicious her rice; how sweet her persimmons!
Too long has it been since I saw her with my own eyes. And, for a mercy, the imperials appear to be absent...
Let no man claim that I am reckless. Prudence has ever been my watchword! Forename─venture closer, if you would, and confirm that there are no soldiers lurking about.
Good people of Namai, hearken to me! We come in peace and desire only information─to learn of recent events!
