Begone, whelp! This is no place for children!
<sniffle> <sob> I'm...I'm sorry...
I... <sniffle> I was looking for you, miss. You said you were looking for the man who left with my parents.
You know this girl?
So he visited Stonesthrow as well? I see.
Did you find the man? Were my parents with him?
They were not, I am afraid.
...However, I can think of several places they might be. If you like, we can go and look for them together.
Really? You'll help me look, mister?
Of course. But first, I must needs finish speaking with my friend. She's telling me a secret, you see, so no one else is allowed to listen. Mayhap you could wait for me by that pillar over there? We require but a moment.
Okay, mister! I'll be waiting!
...I'll take her to the Quicksand. Mayhap Momodi will know what to do.
<sigh> A legion of Garleans, an aether-starved primal─even dealing with an Ascian would be preferable to this charade.
Sometimes I fear Minfilia is too ambitious. We rush hither and yon in response to threats as they arise, without concern for the strain it places on our limited resources─and ourselves.
Mayhap the time has come for a change...
Forename, this is Minfilia. I know this is sudden, but I must ask you to return to Revenant's Toll with all due haste.
The situation in the Twelveswood has taken a turn for the worse. I will explain in detail once you arrive.
The Twelveswood? Then the primal threat she spoke of before has been confirmed? I have received no reports of Ixali activity, which leaves...the sylphs?
Go, Forename. You know as well as I that the appearance of a primal takes precedence over all else.
Oh, and when you arrive, do inform the Antecedent that while I am grateful for her concern, she needn't fear for my safety. I am more than capable of protecting myself.
It is a relief to see you healthy and hale, Forename. The latest news from Ul'dah was most disturbing.
...Clearly, the only injury Alphinaud suffered was to his ego. Doubtless it will heal ere long.
The other Scions will need to be present for this meeting. If you are ready to begin, I will summon them now.
Thank you for responding to my call with such haste.
Rest assured, I should not have summoned you were it not urgent. To business, then: I have received some most disturbing news from the Order of the Twin Adder. They have reason to believe that the sylphs may have called forth their revered guardian─the primal Ramuh.
I'm sorry, “may have”? Then it is not certain?
The Elder Seedseer informs us that the elementals themselves murmur of the Lord of Levin's return to the forest. The Sylphlands, however, display no signs of undue commotion.
Forgive me, Antecedent, but that fact need not contradict the elementals' testimony. Unlike his more bellicose compeers─Garuda and so on─Ramuh is reputed to act only in the defense of his children.
I imagine he would soon make his presence known if any were foolish enough to directly endanger the sylphs or their territory.
The abruptness of this development concerns me. Were we not keeping a close watch on the “touched ones” and their movements?
If preparations for a summoning ritual were indeed underway, 'twould surely not have escaped your notice.
Oh, it didn't. I was pretty sure it was going to happen─just not this soon.
I beg your pardon? You foresaw this eventuality and did naught to prevent it!?
I-I told Papalymo! I suppose I could have reported things to Minfilia earlier...but there honestly wasn't much we could do except wait and see.
You know how the sylphs feel about people poking around in their territory.
They already summoned Ramuh once right after the Calamity, but that was because the Garleans came tramping through the forest...
...And so long as Castrum Oriens stands, the sylphs cannot be blamed for wishing to have their guardian deity on hand.
In short, Yda and I are in agreement. The actions of the forest folk were inevitable and unavoidable.
And I maintain that observation would have remained the best policy had it not been for the sudden influx of strangers into the Black Shroud. That, alas, we did not foresee...
By all accounts, the recent violence in Ul'dah drove a number of refugees to seek safety under the concealing canopy of the trees.
'Tis like that the sylphs perceived this panicked migration as yet another invasion, and quickened their efforts to summon their god.
I am put in mind of Titan and the kobolds. Once again, it is the affairs of men which have paved the way for a primal's coming.
Indeed. One cannot help but wonder what manner of place Eorzea would be without the “civilizing influence” of mankind... Be that as it may, this regrettable development does afford us a unique opportunity.
Forename─through your dealings with the sylphs of Little Solace, you once succeeded in preventing an untimely conflict with Gridania.
I wonder...might one who has treated with the sylphs so fruitfully in the past not achieve similar success with their patron deity?
If Ramuh can be convinced of our intentions, it may be the first step to breaking the cycle of primal summoning.
...A fond hope. Were such a thing possible, we would not have been at war with the beastmen since time immemorial.
But maybe this time we can─
Let us continue this discussion anon. We must needs first consult with the nation most affected by Ramuh's presence.
The Elder Seedseer has requested your personal involvement, Forename. Pray report to Commander Heuloix at the Adders' Nest as soon as you are able.
Steel yourself for the worst. While I hope for a peaceful resolution to this matter, experience suggests that your meeting with the Lord of Levin will prove less than amicable. In such an event, your fellow Scions will of course lend you whatever support you require.
Forename of the Scions, your arrival has been most anticipated. The appearance of a primal is ever cause for alarm and unease.
Though my men stand ready for any eventuality, I know of none more qualified than you to snuff out this threat. Indeed, I would have you do so without delay. The Elder Seedseer, however, would speak with you first.
She is of the opinion that your diplomatic─rather than martial─skills may better serve our cause. I will leave further explanation to our learned leader. Pray make your way to Nophica's Altar. The conjurer in attendance will admit you to the Lotus Stand.
The other Scions have already arrived, madam. May I show you in?
Scions of the Seventh Dawn, on behalf of the people of Gridania, I bid you welcome. Your presence is of great comfort to us all in these days of uncertainty.
I summoned you here to share tidings of a most urgent nature. But a short while ago, the great elemental spoke, and his voice was clarion in its intensity: Ramuh is returned unto the forest.
Scarce had his words ceased to echo in mine ears when we were visited by an emissary from Little Solace.
Our guest informs us that the sylphs, too, have sensed the presence of the Lord of Levin.
Though his exact whereabouts remain unknown, we may safely assume that the primal was summoned within the heart of the Sylphlands.
Unlike the other primals you have encountered, Lord Ramuh is no raging avatar of destruction. He is revered as much for his wisdom as his strength, serving as both arbiter and guardian to his children. Given that we and the sylphs found a way to share the Twelveswood, it is my hope that this sagely immortal will be amenable to reason, and that conflict may be avoided.
Blessed as you are with the power of the Echo, you are one of the few among us who may commune with a primal without fear of influence. I would ask therefore that you represent us in this most delicate of negotiations.
The Twelveswood has suffered enough. Upon this, we and the sylphs─and I would venture Lord Ramuh himself─are in perfect accord. Let us not endanger our shared home by engaging in unnecessary hostilities.
Dear friend, I beseech you: safeguard the peace which exists between our peoples.
You have my thanks.
Pray make for Little Solace, then. A member of the Order of the Twin Adder awaits you there. He will advise you on how to find the Lord of Levin.
An ill wind blows through the forest.
Yet...it is not only the Twelveswood that flinches at its coming─all the lands of Eorzea shiver in dread anticipation. Have care.
Forename of the Scions? I was told to expect you.
I understand you go to treat with the primal Ramuh himself─an unenviable task, but one for which I have no doubt you are well suited.
I have been told that your fellow Scions are conducting an investigation of the area as we speak, that we might ascertain the location where the Lord of Levin might be found. I would ask that you abide here until they return with their findings.
I was told that a messenger would be sent as soon as your fellow Scions finished their investigation. I do not imagine it will be much longer.
