You...you've come to ask about the attack, haven't you?
...We came upon them before the entrance to the Hall of the Seven Echoes. Pilgrims, we marked them as─lost and ill equipped for a journey further north. Our leader called out to them, and one stepped forward to answer.
Slowly she approached, her silver hair flowing in the wind like melting snow. Just a young girl, I thought, some poor lost lamb in search of salvation.
Our leader must have thought the same─else why would he let her draw so close? They exchanged some words I couldn't hear, and she leaned forward as if to kiss his cheek...and then he sighed and crumpled to the ground. I didn't know what had happened till I saw the snow turn red.
And then there was red everywhere I looked. I tried to fight, but took a blow to the head, and by the time I came to, the others were dead and the heretics were unloading the wagon. I couldn't... I-I mean, they'd have killed me, so... So I just lay still and listened.
Iceheart's people spoke of deliverance and resurrection. And...they spoke of Shiva...
Ah, you've returned. What news have you for us?
It seems the Lady Iceheart does not scruple to sully her hands with blood.
Who is this “Shiva” the heretics spoke of?
...Have you not read a single line of the Enchiridion, Master Alphinaud?
Shiva was a traitor to kith and kin─an apostate who lay down with dragons.
Now, now, we cannot expect all foreigners to know Ishgardian scripture so well─particularly when it concerns the patron saints of heretics.
Wait─you say she is their patron saint? Oh, no... It all makes sense now...
Lord Haurchefant─what was the caravan's cargo?
Ah...if I recall correctly, the Diamond Forge had requested a rather large quantity of crystals─
Do you not see? Iceheart and her followers intend to summon Shiva, as a beast tribe would a primal! Why else would they go to such lengths to secure crystals?
...I shall inform the lord commander at once. Lord Haurchefant, you would agree that discretion is of paramount concern?
Of course.
I trust we can count on your continued support, Master Alphinaud?
The Scions of the Seventh Dawn are sworn to combat the primal threat. Our support is a given.
I will need to send word to my brethren in Revenant's Toll. Our entire order must turn its efforts to the prevention of this summoning.
Naturally, that includes you─though I am sure you would not miss this for the world.
The persistent attacks on our caravans seemed little more than a nuisance at first. The heretics were a problem, to be sure, but a relatively minor one.
That was before I discerned the purpose behind their attacks, of course... Now they have my undivided attention.
After apprising Minfilia of the situation, I shall summon a unit of Crystal Braves to assist us. As for you, Forename─pray join me in Whitebrim Front.
Since the incident at Snowcloak, the knights of House Durendaire have redoubled their reconnaissance efforts in the region. It is my hope that they have information which may help us to determine precisely where the heretics are hiding.
Given our mutual enemy, Lord Drillemont should be eager to oblige us. I shall see you there, then? Good.
The Scions of the Seventh Dawn wish to join in the hunt for Iceheart? Your assistance is more than welcome, my friends.
Considering the report I just received, I daresay your timing could be no better.
We are all ears, Lord Drillemont.
A band of pilgrims was seen transporting a large number of crates to the west. Their garb appears to match the description provided by the squire who survived the attack.
Alas, our scouts lost track of them at Snowcloak─that selfsame frozen wall which we speculated might conceal the heretics' hideaway.
Suffice it to say, the disappearance of these “pilgrims” and their provisions all but confirms our suspicions.
I have heard enough. My knights will join the hunt.
I took the liberty of summoning a unit of Crystal Braves to Whitebrim Front. Given the gravity of the situation, I trust you will agree that we must use every resource available to us.
...These are extraordinary circumstances, Commander. 'Twould be in our best interests to coordinate our efforts.
Such was my intent from the start, Ser Aymeric.
And so it begins, my friend─though I daresay it will prove an all-too-brief collaboration. Iceheart will not elude the combined forces of the Crystal Braves and the Temple Knights for long.
Nevertheless, a wise man does not wager all upon the success of a single solution. There may yet be subtler means by which we can locate the heretics' lair. Mayhap Lord Drillemont has one in mind?
