Who...? Who hath made us whole?
Hark! A great kami stirs... Yes, yes, a great kami of the sacred treasures!
O great kami, we beseech your intercession! We who have guarded your blade and glass for generations─your faithful Kojin!
Thou didst freely deliver our jewel unto thine enemy's own treasure vault?
Hah hah hah! How auspicious! We do commend thee, daughter of man.
Such audacity is deserving of celebration, exultation─a contest of wills to mark the occasion! Let lines be drawn! Let sides be chosen! And for their loyalty, we shall stand with the caretakers of our greater part.
Oh, perfect. A contest of wills. Just what we need.
Hahahaha hah hah hah! Hearken to us, shelled ones! Upon this day, your wish shall be granted!
Curse neither your fate nor its executor, children of man, for we are of the divine─of both heaven and earth. The ringing silence. The raging calm.
All riseth and falleth at the whim of capricious fortune. Assume your marks upon the stage, and embrace the coming chaos!
We are Susano, and in revelry do we rejoice!
That...that's a primal standing in front of us, right?
And a horde of angry Kojin at our backs.<sigh> This contest is getting worse by the moment.
Lyse! Help me clear a path!
Leave them to us and save your strength. You'll be needing it soon enough.
Make way, make way!
Spoil not your appetite for the feast, children of man. The dish will be served, whether you will it or no! Hah hah hah hah haaah!
<pant> <pant> That...that was not part of the plan! A Kojin primal was most definitely not part of the plan!
...Though I am sure there is a perfectly logical explanation involving the aether stored in the treasures and the religious fervor with which the Kojin guard them. Or something. <sigh> A pity Alphinaud isn't here to provide it.
And just when I thought our fortunes had changed. I swear, if Soroban and his people knew this might happen...
...No, somehow I doubt that. Even the Red seemed surprised by what happened.
All rises and falls at the whim of capricious fortune, does it? Then the same goes for him. We have to defeat that primal!
As before, our numbers limit our options. I wish I could claim to have a brilliant plan, but I don't─all I have is a desperate one.
Lyse, you and I will do our best to draw the Kojin away from the primal. We'll lead them on a wild-dodo chase all over this isle.
The rest of the plan, I'm afraid you can guess. I'm sorry, Forename, I truly am, but neither of us can even approach Susano, much less hope to defeat him. Which means you're on your own.
Well, who knows? She does have an awful lot of adventurer friends. Maybe some of them decided to take a fishing trip to the Far East, and are surprisingly close by...?
Yes, and I speak fluent Hingan. Come on, there's no point putting this off!
Let the revels begin!
The seas part for we alone!
How our hearts sing in the chaos!
Wild and pure and forever free!
REJOICE!
Resilient souls! I salute you!
Earth and stone at our beck and call!
Earth and stone at our beck and call!
Nary a peep from the shellbacks, sir. It's enough to make one wonder...
The Red have sounded the alarum. The Isle of Zekki under attack;fierce fighting in the stronghold.
The vault breached by outsiders, and strange tales from deep within.All this, the Red cannot ignore.
Even now, they abandon their posts and flock to the isle.The Garleans are powerless to stop them.
I'll be damned. They did it.
Well, Captain...wagers notwithstanding, I daresay we will not have a better opportunity to drive the imperials from Isari and rescue our men.
On the other hand, naught was put in writing... But if your mind is made up, then that is that.
...I should add that if you were to change your mind, none would gainsay your decision, nor think you beholden to your past.
Nor would anyone begrudge you a spot of revenge into the bargain.Like the little miss said, we knew this day would come.
Isari may be a rotting husk, but at least the tavern keeper never watered down his drinks.
Well said for a temperate man.
Hear me, comrades! We made a bargain with the Eorzeans, and I mean to uphold our end of it. I mean to remind the Garleans that this is our sea─that all here belongs to the Confederacy!
All that is theirs is ours for the taking─and take it we shall.We will strip them of everything they hold dear!
This one is iron. My hands will break before he speaks.
Ugh, kami give me strength. Are you good at anything?
I had hoped this might prove more productive than blind inquiries, but I see you are determined to waste my time. Very well.
Line them up. Kill one for every question he refuses to answer.
Hurt them, and you will get naught from me!
You have given me precisely that thus far, so what have I to lose? Mark me, samurai─I will find Lord Hien, be it with your help or with your heads.
Confederate scum! You will pay for─ Aaargh!
