Seven hells, she's seen us! Sod it─dead's as good as alive to the imperials!
They attacked you too, didn't they? I...I had no choice...
They're Ala Mhigan─not even conscripts, by the look of them. Barely adults. In fact, some of their faces look familiar...
Wait, I remember. They're from Radiata! They must have seen us when we were looking for Stark!
They probably thought the imperials would reward them if they captured or killed─
Oh gods... Alisaie and Alphinaud could be in danger too! We have to get back to Radiata and find Naago!
What's all this about? You two look ready for a fight.
We were ambushed by villagers outside of Radiata, and thought they might try to attack you too. Are you all right?
Aye, we're fine. The twins are at Stark's. Alisaie was asleep, last I checked.
I'm sorry, did you say you were ambushed by villagers? Not soldiers? Did they not see what we just did to Castrum Abania? Godsdamned fools!
Lyse, Forename. We overheard you talking...
The ones that attacked you. They were young? Less than twenty summers?
Aye, I thought so. It's always the young ones─the ones who have only ever known the occupation. They're the ones you've got to look out for.
See, the only decent work to be found in Radiata is for the imperials, and everyone knows it. Children grow up knowing it. They have it pounded into their skulls that the best they can hope for is to serve an imperial officer.
Bloody fools! After everything they've seen us accomplish! They ought to be begging to fight for the Resistance, not against us!
They've been living in the shadow of a castrum their whole lives. A few victories won't change that. Aye, you get some who can't wait to spit in a soldier's eye, but they get beaten for their trouble, or worse...
Even so...
...And the ones that don't fight back but refuse to beg, well, they just starve. Beat the dog that bites his master's hand, and ignore the dog that refuses to do his bidding, see?
In the end, the ones that learn to abide are the ones that survive.
Now, you may say that's all about to change, and I believe you. Many here do.
But a young man or woman who grew up only knowing what he knows has got every reason to doubt. Remember that. Do what you have to, if it comes to it, but remember that.
The sooner we liberate Ala Mhigo and bring an end to the occupation, the better. Only then can we show these youths that things do not have to be this way.
...Only then will they know what it means to live free.
We're going to build a new home for ourselves. Together. A better home than they've ever known.
I've been thinking. If Alisaie needs more time to heal, maybe we should move her to Rhalgr's Reach.
She can receive much better care there, after all. Our infirmary is probably the best place for her, short of sending her to Gridania.
Indeed. And given what Mistress Woad has told us, I would rather she did not remain here.
Then it's settled. Naago, go and see about getting us a carriage and an escort. Alphinaud, you should get your sister ready for the journey.
Forename, would you mind going on ahead and telling Orella that we're on our way? I want a bed waiting for Alisaie when she arrives. Thanks.
Hm? Do you require assistance?
Very well, we will make ready to receive the patient at once. Give me a hand, would you?
There. All crisp and freshly laundered.
We're here. Is everything in order?
Right. We're bringing her in.
Honestly, Alphinaud, you needn't have gone to all this trouble...
What can I say? It seemed a good way to discourage you from limping off to battle when my back was turned. Listen to Orella, please. You need your rest.
I know, I know...Any news of Krile? She'll be cross if you make her wait too long. As will I.
Hah. A chilling prospect indeed... I'll find her, Sister. And I'll fight twice as hard─for the both of us.
They're good together...when they're not at each other's throats. I miss that feeling...
Forename─I have a favor to ask. Would you mind waiting outside for me? I won't be a moment.
Sorry to have kept you waiting...
Well, what do you think? I know it's a bit old-fashioned...but in a traditional sort of way. Yda wore it whenever she could...
Not that I'm pretending to be her or anything! Not again. It's just...if this is the last battle we fight to free Ala Mhigo, then she ought to be a part of it.
It's nice of you to say so. Aaand a bit embarrassing. But mostly nice.
Oh, I know, right? All these stupid frills everywhere...
Well don't just stand there gawping! If you don't like it, just say so!
Anyway, the real reason I asked you here was to sneak in a warm-up before the final battle.
There's this place I know where monks used to spar as part of their training. Care to join me?
<pant> <pant> Maybe we got a little carried away... But you have to admit that was fun.
Thank you, Forename. You're the best kind of friend─the kind that's not afraid to knock some sense into you.
Now that Alisaie's settled in, it's time we rejoined the fight.
Though, actually...maybe you and Alphinaud should go on ahead without me. I need to talk strategy with the officers, and that might take a while...
Ah, there you are. What was it that Lyse wanted of you?
Ahahaha! A sparring match on the Destroyer's very palm? I would have liked to have seen that.
But she is right─we have lingered here long enough. I am ready to depart when you are.
Take care, you two. Don't do anything I wouldn't.
And you had better not rise from that bed until you are given express permission to do so. Urianger will be paying you a visit soon, and he is already worried enough as it is.
We have a long road ahead of us. Lead the way, Forename.
You are returned! How fares your sister, Alphinaud?
Her rapier wit remains undulled─for better or for worse. Have there been any developments in our absence?
I am proud to say that Castrum Abania is now wholly under our control. At present, we are taking stock of the enemy's supplies and redistributing them amongst our men.
Also, while sifting through the officers' documents, we learned that a unit of Skulls under Fordola's command passed through the castrum en route to the capital...with a single prisoner in their custody.
Krile! It has to be her!
In all likelihood, yes. You will be glad to hear that the tunnel leading to the Lochs has been secured by our soldiers and is now safe for travel.
And one final piece of good news: reinforcements from all four Alliance nations have arrived and joined the main host, which has established a new base of operations within the Lochs.
Commander Hext should be arriving soon, yes? When she does, we will call a meeting to discuss the final stage of Rhalgr's Beacon.
Sorry for keeping you all waiting!
An Ala Mhigan folk dress? How very fitting. And well-fitting, I might add.
I wanted to do something for Yda. And myself.
This is it. The last push. We're coming, Krile...
I remember my father's words.How they rang in my ears as we left Castrum Abania behind and looked out over the lochs before us.
Comrades brave and true. They had come from all across Eorzea to stand with us.To stand against oppression and tyranny.
Twenty years the Empire has ruled us, but no longer.Liberty or death. Liberty or death.
Ere we begin, I would say to you, as a proud son of Ala Mhigo, that I am grateful to each and every one of you for your part in this endeavor.
Now, to the heart of the matter. The enemy appears content to remain within the city walls and await the inevitable siege. Open conflict has been sporadic thus far.
Whether Zenos is biding his time until reinforcements arrive or attempting to bait us into a trap, none can say. We know better than to trust his word.
Regardless, we can ill afford to present Garlemald with a chance to ready her legions. It would be in our best interests to press for a swift resolution.
A long siege wouldn't be good for the people in the city either.If food becomes scarce, you know who'll starve first.
Just so. Therefore, I propose we commit our forces to an all-out assault.What say you?
'Twould seem we are of one mind. Then let us proceed to the how of it.
The Immortal Flames will form the vanguard, supported by the archers and the conjurers of the Order of the Twin Adder, under the Elder Seedseer's command.
Once the main host has cleared a path to the walls, we will bring forward the artillery of the Maelstrom and the Temple Knights.
I would have your cannons pound the gates, and punch a hole right through the middle of their defenses!
What about the Resistance?
Your part will be to occupy the residential district and keep civilians out of harm's way. The people are more like to trust their own.
Of course. You can count on us!
Remember that there is a second entrance to the city proper there. If all goes to plan, we will have secured two points of entry.
Once both objectives are complete, we press on into the city, surround the palace, and hunt down Zenos.
As for the Scions, you will be held in reserve as an irregular unit until we have more intelligence on your captured comrade. Krile's rescue will be your primary concern, but I daresay we'll find a use for you once her freedom has been secured.
Thank you, General. I pray we find her quickly.
Rhalgr's Beacon nears its end.Soon, my friends, Ala Mhigo will be ours once more!
The stage is set, and the players are assembled. Eorzea has come at last to drive the invaders from her lands.
What would Grandfather say if he were with us here today...?
The stage is set, and the players are assembled. Eorzea has come at last to drive the invaders from her lands.
What would Grandfather say if he were with us here today...?
For all our other accomplishments, Krile remains in the hands of our enemy, and I find myself wondering if we─if I could have done more. Though we know now that she was taken to the city, we have found nothing which might tell us where she is being held.
You know, you could just ask me.
Thancred! What have you learned?
I shall spare you the particulars of my infiltration and simply state that I have seen her with my own eyes. She is being held within the residential district south of the city proper.
I tracked her to the ruins of an old temple of the Fist of Rhalgr, within which the imperials have constructed a research facility...
A research facility? What manner of research?
Why...methods to imbue Garleans with the power to manipulate aether. In pursuit of which goal, their scientists have, I am sorry to report, performed many questionable experiments─on living subjects.
What!?
Calm down, Alphinaud. We've already been tasked with securing the Ala Mhigan Quarter. This just gives us a reason to do it faster.
I entered and exited the facility by stowing aboard imperial transports, but that method is not suitable for a larger force.
And it goes without saying that a direct assault on the rather substantial main gates would be ill-advised.
I think I might know someone who can help.
One of my men. He had an idea about how to get into the city─ Actually, it might be best if I let him explain it himself.
It's been a while. I'll not take offense if you don't remember. Might even be glad of it.
...Ala Gannha, am I right?
Aye. Wiscar's the name. I was raised in the Peaks, but my mum grew up in the city.
Er...anyroad, I reckon we can get inside the Ala Mhigan Quarter by way of Loch Seld.
What? How?
It was a story my mum told us which made me think of it. She was always going on about what life was like when she was a girl, see...how they used to have to boil the water from the well before they could drink it, since it was full of salt─
They were drawing saltwater from the lochs! Which means that there must be an underwater tunnel or something.
Aye, that's it. But it won't be as simple as going for a swim.
The well was closed, see. Apparently, Theodoric decided one day he wanted to control the water supply and forbade water trading. So even if you come up through it, you'll find yourself on the wrong side of a locked gate.
At the time, my grandfather, being an enterprising sort, befriended a guard and lifted the key from his belt. He made a copy and carried on selling water until the imperials invaded, and he ended up working at the Saltery...
In short, we need your grandfather's key. Assuming he still has it.
I'm certain he does. And I can take you to him. But it'll be dangerous.
Don't you worry about that. We're used to dangerous.
Naago and Arenvald will assemble a squadron while the rest of us go and get that key.
Let's not waste any more time, then, shall we?
My mum said Grandad kept the key with him at all times as a lucky charm. If he hasn't got it, then, well...
Then we'll cross that bridge when we come to it.Ready, Forename? We may have to deal with a few imperial patrols, or worse...
The Saltery's not far. Follow me!
We're here, but...this isn't right. Where is everyone?
Word of the Alliance's advance has surely reached their ears. Mayhap they sought refuge elsewhere? We should search the buildings for clues.
Word of the Alliance's advance has surely reached their ears. Mayhap they sought refuge elsewhere? We should search the buildings for clues.
Word of the Alliance's advance has surely reached their ears. Mayhap they sought refuge elsewhere? We should search the buildings for clues.
Word of the Alliance's advance has surely reached their ears. Mayhap they sought refuge elsewhere? We should search the buildings for clues.
Word of the Alliance's advance has surely reached their ears. Mayhap they sought refuge elsewhere? We should search the buildings for clues.
Word of the Alliance's advance has surely reached their ears. Mayhap they sought refuge elsewhere? We should search the buildings for clues.
All right, which one of you triggered the obvious trap!?
On your guard! Magitek drones approaching!
Mayhap...half a dozen? Forename─keep Wiscar alive, would you?
Seven hells! I could do with some help here!
Now then, where were we? Ah, yes, looking for clues as to the whereabouts of our erstwhile water merchant and his key...
Now then, where were we? Ah, yes, looking for clues as to the whereabouts of our erstwhile water merchant and his key...
The Sali Monastery! That's to the south. I'll lead the way!
Not after that ambush you won't! It's too dangerous! Forename, we'll follow you. Keep your eyes peeled for more magitek!
The monastery is just past that gate. Keep going!
Hm. Something tall, dark and imperial appears to be blocking the entrance.
Godsdammit! I don't think there's a way round...
Then we'll just have to go through him!
Look! I think those two devices are shield generators!
I will keep the machine occupied. Forename, be a darling and destroy the generators before it rips my head off.
'Tis done! See how it falters! Belabor the brute!
He won't be getting up after that! Now, let's find our man!
This is it. This is the monastery. They have to be around here somewhere...
Watt! Watt! It's me, Wiscar! Your grandson!
