I'm here, you blundering oaf. Why are you late?
Standing on the wall, why else? I have duties to fulfill, you know!
Your sole duty is to the─ Hm? Bloody echo. Lower your voice, or they'll hear us in Whitebrim Front.
Y-Yes, of course. The Temple Knights are... <mumble> <mumble> ...in Snowcloak.
This is what you bring to me? We already knew about... <mumble> <mumble> Our comrades in Boulder Downs will use the tunnels... <mumble> <mumble> ...dead before they know what's happening. Nevertheless... <mumble> <mumble> ...if you waste my time again. Is that clear?
Well? Did your investigation bear fruit?
I see. I shall have the man detained at once. His guilt is plain.
<sigh> Would that you could have heard their words more clearly...
Yet...the few snatches you were able to make out are nonetheless enlightening. It would seem the heretics are aware of our operation─and confident that they can thwart it.
Their comrades in Boulder Downs are key to their plans─which means it is key to our plans that they be rooted out and put to the sword.
We have long suspected that the heretics use a network of secret tunnels to traverse the highlands undetected... Given what you overheard, I fear that Snowcloak may be riddled with such passageways, and that the heretics in Boulder Downs are planning to use them to take our forces unawares. Needless to say, we cannot allow that to happen.
A contingent of House Durendaire knights are on patrol in the area, and I shall order them to begin searching for the heretics at once. But knowing nothing of our enemy's numbers or readiness, I cannot say for sure that they will be sufficient...
It would put my mind at ease if you would consent to assist my knights with the search. I know they would take courage from the presence of so storied a warrior.
Pray rendezvous with them at Boulder Downs. If Halone is kind, we may catch these heretics before their plans come to fruition.
Show them no mercy, Forename. The lives of our allies are at stake.
My knights sent no word of your coming, Forename. What has happened? What is that in your hand?
By the Fury... Those were veterans with years of service!
And now they lie dead in the snow. <sigh> Their bodies must be recovered, and─
No. No, we have not the men to spare. Not now. Not while Iceheart prepares to summon an abomination.
The heretics you dispatched were not of sufficient number to contend with the combined strength of the Temple Knights and the Crystal Braves. There must be others. And I'll wager they are on their way to Snowcloak as we speak.
To make matters worse, it seems the traitor you followed managed to pass the heretics something of value after all...
The parchment you recovered is a timetable of the guardsmen's watches at our outpost in Snowcloak. The traitor was stationed there long before he aroused our suspicions. Would that we had caught him sooner!
With this information, the heretics would know when the watch was weakest. They could use their tunnels with impunity and prepare their ambush...
The timetable has not changed, you see. Of course, it will be changed now, but the heretics may already be in position.
House Durendaire must send reinforcements─even if it means withdrawing knights from the Stone Vigil. I can see no other way to safeguard the lives of our allies.
Time is of the essence, Forename. While my knights make ready to depart, the heretics may take our allies in Snowcloak unawares.
Superior training and equipment will avail them naught if they are cut down ere their swords are drawn. But all is not yet lost. If you leave now, there may still be time to warn them.
Make haste, I beseech you! Fly to Snowcloak and tell Ser Aymeric everything we have discovered.
Forename. This is a welcome surprise─perhaps the only one thus far. As you can see, we have yet to uncover any hidden─
...You have my gratitude. Truth be told, we suspected the heretics might be plotting such an attack. Now that we have confirmation, I shall place my knights on high alert.
Has Commander Leveilleur been informed? The Braves must be made aware.
It must be here! I am certain of it! Why else would they go to such lengths to defend Snowcloak?
'Tis but a pity this discovery comes when our enemy has us at such a disadvantage. Forewarned though we be─the heretics know the terrain far better than we. I dare not think how many are watching us at this very moment...
Confound it! This is all wrong. Iceheart has us scrambling to save our own skins when we should rightly be straining every sinew to find her, and stop this damnable summoning!
