Rrrrrruuu...ined. I'm...rrruuuined...
As I feared...
What is it?
The beast was there...and now it is no more, yes?
Indeed, we saw it plain. But...you didn't, did you?
I saw nothing. Not the blasphemy that perished here, nor the other men-turned-beasts. And because of this, I now see all too well...
There is no aether. Where the creatures should be, I saw naught but emptiness...
Emptiness? But that would mean...
Recall the words of the watcher. 'Twas a stagnancy of aether─a cessation of flow leading to decay and absence─that led the ancients to conclude their star was dying...
This is the same phenomenon. The instant these people are seized by the transformation, their aether begins to...rot and crumble away like dried mud...
Until, from their corporeal forms to their very souls, naught remains...
But the beast spoke with its dying breath! Surely, at least a sliver of the man it was endured!
...Mayhap so. But even if the process was incomplete, 'twas little more than a faint residue.
Gods be good... You're saying they cannot be saved?
Not by any means known to me.
...Or by any means at all, like as not. For there is naught left to save.
They return not even to the aetherial sea...
The beasts rage on, their hunger insatiable...
Even deprived of their master, they perpetuate his legacy of hate.
Once proud sons and daughters of Thavnair, all of them...and now I spill their blood!
Vrtra! My friends! I am heartened to see you safe.
You put your secret at risk.
Those closest to me already know the truth─a truth I must now share with one and all.
...Vrtra. Calamity has come to Radz-at-Han. Our fair nation is rent by screams of pain and despair.
More than ever, we require a strong leader to shepherd us through the storm. Reveal your true self to our people, Vrtra, and guide us to salvation!
What madness is this, Ahewann? Thou dost forget thyself.
Were we to reveal our duplicity, it would do naught but foster confusion and chaos.
Nay, I shall remain the satrap's loyal ally, and do battle with the beasts. Easing hearts and leading the people to safety is thy task, and thine alone.
I ask that you remain at Ahewann's side, and render unto him what aid you may.
I know not what lies ahead, but without you, Radz-at-Han will not survive.
...Take me with you.
I am as at home fighting in the air as I am on land. Take me with you.
Were my words unclear? I require no assistance. Thy place is at Ahewann's side.
Estinien─here.
It's the last thing you ever wanted─a linkpearl.
We'd gain much from knowing your elevated perspective. And it'll keep you from getting lonely─which I know you loathe.
You heard the man. Seems I'm coming with you after all.
Then I pray thy grip is iron. Be it on thy head if thou dost chance to fall.
Fair enough. Now─shall we?
I fear it is as Vrtra says: we will not survive this on our own. While I am loath to impose upon you again...
I would insist if you did not. 'Tis the very reason we have come.
Then once more I find myself without words to thank you properly. Let us return to the capital and plan our next course of action.
All life must end in death. Yet death, in turn, gives birth to new life─such is the flow of aether. To think that natural cycle could simply be...cut off─the very thought makes me shudder.
After so long, and so many sacrifices, we finally found a way to cure the tempered. But these poor souls...they vanish without a trace. Is there truly no saving them...?
While Estinien and Vrtra defend Radz-at-Han from above, we on the ground must find a means to prevent these transformations...and soon.
The stillness in the air puts me ill at ease. We must be wary.
Worry not. I can see your aether, and that of our companions. We have not suffered the fate of those unfortunate souls.
Our Radiant Host has eliminated the immediate threat to the city, though it pains me to know those beasts were once my own people...
There is no telling when or where the next transformation might occur. We must remain vigilant and steel ourselves for whatever is yet to come.
Forgive me, my friends, but I must return to Meghaduta for the time being. There, I can better manage this crisis and dispatch my troops as the situation demands.
In that case, we shall carry out an investigation of our own here in the city.
Mayhap the residents can tell us more about the first of the transformations, and the conditions under which it occurred.
If we can ascertain what exactly triggered these tragic events, it may give us some insight as to a possible solution.
Time is of the essence. Let us split into three groups that we may cover more ground.
Alisaie and I will see to Paksa's Path. Thancred and Y'shtola, pray make for Dharma.
I leave Artha to G'raha and you, Forename. Any information you can gather on the first blasphemy or the manifestation of the Final Days here in the city would be most helpful.
When we have completed our respective inquiries, let us reconvene in front of Meghaduta, that we might share what we've learned with the satrap.
Shall we be off, then?
Artha is home to the High Crucible of Al-Kimiya, whose alchemists forged many of our warding scales.
That seems as good a place as any to begin our investigation, don't you think? I spoke briefly with Nuhadeen, the chief alchemist there, on our last visit. He should be happy to answer our queries.
Let us make for the High Crucible and speak with Nuhadeen. His discerning eye may reveal to us truths we have overlooked.
Very well. I shall be waiting for you at Alzadaal's Path whenever you are ready to resume our investigation.
Ready to get back to it? Excellent!
