Damn it all! Where could it have got to!?
Oh! Um, pardon me, fellow lover of freedom and justice. You haven't seen a ward of the Destroyer anywhere, have you? Maybe on the ground, as if a certain bloody fool had dropped it?
Aye, I'd been him. I had it this morning, that much I know for certain, and I've not left the Reach since, so it's got to be around here somewhere.
Hmm... If you've got a moment to spare, would you be willing to help me search? I spent some time near the Temple of the Fist earlier, so it might be there. As for me, I'll look around near the officer's pavilion.
They're hardly rare, I know, and I could just as easily buy another, but even so... Please, help me find it...
I swear, I've searched high and low, but it just won't turn up...
Seven hells, that's the one! That's my lucky ward! You're a godssend, sister!
Before I was born, my mother made a pilgrimage to the Temple of the Fist, where she, like many others, received the blessings of the monks.
And then Theodoric came and burned it all to the ground, the mad bastard. And after him came the Garleans, who cared even less for our beliefs.
But I still keep to the old ways, as do many others. And when my son is born, I'll teach him the stories and the scripture, as my mother taught me...
And with that, another task is complete...Ah, Forename. I hear you have been keeping busy.
Aye, that she has, and we thank her for it.
It pleases me to inform you that our new recruits have completed their initial training and stand ready to contribute.
As discussed, M'naago, I would have you present my proposal for an assault on Castellum Velodyna to General Aldynn personally.
Of course, sir!
Are you and yours planning to return to Castrum Oriens before the operation? If so, why don't we travel together?
That seems a fine suggestion, but I must consult my comrades ere we depart.
Very well. I will wait for you at the pass. But not too long!
I expect Krile and Y'shtola will wish to remain here to support the chirurgeons, but nevertheless, we should go and ask them.
Hm? Is aught amiss?
...I see. That would explain the sudden flurry of activity outside.
This joint operation marks a turning point in our conflict with the Garleans. For the first time, the Resistance and the Alliance shall go on the offensive and attempt to capture an imperial outpost in occupied territory.
Personally, I believe it is imperative that we offer them our full support. As was the case with Ishgard, however, this is not a choice to be made lightly, nor less on others' behalves. This is war, and every Scion must decide what part he or she would play.
I'll fight. For Ala Mhigo, for my father, for Yda. I'm in it to the end.
The choice was made for us ere we were born, Brother, when the Empire marched on Eorzea.
They will stop at nothing to subjugate or slaughter us all. Van Baelsar and van Darnus were but the first to try.
...Though your fervor is surprising, I cannot dispute your logic.
At the risk of repeating myself, I am of course of the same mind. The present situation is untenable, and further complicated by the existence of Ilberd's primal. I believe we have no recourse but to directly and openly intervene.
...I thought this a foregone conclusion given our actions thus far, but if you require renewed affirmation, then yes, I am still wholly committed to this cause. For it is ultimately the selfsame cause I have served since first I pledged to serve Master Louisoix and the Circle of Knowing: the salvation of Eorzea, by any means necessary.
That said, I shall refrain from taking the field on this occasion. There are many here who require further treatment, and doubtless more to come after.
I came here for Minfilia, and that hasn't changed. However, I'd like to stay with Y'shtola for now and tend to the wounded.
As for you, Forename...you are, to quote our dear friend Lord Edmont, the woman who slew Gaius van Baelsar and some half-dozen primals besides. Your presence may well prove the difference between victory and defeat.
Many look to you as a hero, and heap great expectations upon your shoulders. But you, like every Scion, must decide for yourself.
Indeed. As you have doubtless seen during your time in the outlying villages, their so-called “meritocracy” is but a pretext to torture and enslave their “lesser” subjects. Such is the fate that awaits us all should their expansion continue unchecked.
Well said. Well said indeed...
Hah! Ever the adventurer! You live for these moments, do you not?
...I see. While it pains me to hear you speak thus, I am grateful for your candor. There was a time when you would have kept such thoughts to yourself.
Take care, Y'shtola, Krile, and do not hesitate to contact us should you require assistance. Lyse─I would ask that you remain here, by Conrad's side.
We should go, or M'naago will leave without us.
Might I persuade you to join us, Forename? Should you wish to give your decision further consideration, Castrum Oriens would seem an apt place to do it. You need not answer right away. I am sure I can convince M'naago to wait a little longer.
So you will be accompanying us? Full glad am I to hear it.
All set? Excellent. Then let us be off!
Welcome back, comrades. What news?
Greetings, General. I am come at Commander Kemp's behest to brief you on the latest developments at the Reach.
Our recruitment efforts have exceeded expectations. In addition to welcoming many motivated young Ala Mhigans, our ranks have been bolstered by the arrival of a number of experienced veterans, thanks in large part to the efforts of the Scions.
As a consequence, we are now able to field half a dozen new units, with more being trained as we speak.
Good. I gather Conrad is eager to strike while the iron's hot?
Just so, General. He proposes that we begin preparations for a joint operation to capture Castellum Velodyna.
Capture Velodyna? That will not be easy. It will, however, be necessary if we are ever to push east towards the capital...
There is no profit in delay. It is only a matter of time before the Garleans learn of our plans and summon reinforcements.
The Alliance hereby accepts Commander Kemp's proposal. Tell him to take no chances─bring every able-bodied Ala Mhigan who can wield a weapon.
Pipin─I want Velodyna watched. Assess its defenses. Every fortress has a weakness, and I would know this one's.
If there is no objection, General, might the Scions join Marshal Tarupin?
By all means.If that is all─let us be about it!
Conrad and the General are of one mind, it seems... I only wish I could say the same. While this aggressive strategy may well profit us in the end, what losses will we suffer in the meantime...?
Anyway, we should speak with the vice marshal about this reconnaissance mission and see how he would like to proceed.
Thank you for volunteering to join me. This should be a fairly straightforward reconnaissance mission, so long as we do not have the ill fortune to run afoul of an imperial patrol.
Come─our destination is beyond East End, just north of Velodyna.
This ought to be close enough. Now we settle in for a long watch.
That said...it would be prudent to keep your weapons at the ready, in the event a passing patrol stumbles upon us, or worse...
This ought to be close enough. Now we settle in for a long watch.
That said...it would be prudent to keep your weapons at the ready, in the event a passing patrol stumbles upon us, or worse...
Excellent... The disposition of the imperial forces is exactly as expected.I will notify Father.
Cannon fire! Where did it come from?
Smoke! There! Is that─ Oh gods, it's Rhalgr's Reach!
It's no use─I think someone's jamming our communications.
You don't think... Could this be part of a coordinated attack?
Too early to draw conclusions.We must abort the assault and return to the Reach at once.
Forward! FORWARD! Give them no quarter!
You!
Traitor! Kinslayer!
You're no kin of mine!
Meffrid!
Hells take you!
Hurgh...
Well, well...
Stand aside, Pilus. This one has promise.
Have a care, my lord. She's not like the others.
Hm. Do not disappoint me, girl. Or I will kill you.
Seven hells... It's him! It's Zenos!
The viceroy? Oh...you are a dead man!
So spirited...and yet so empty.
Lyse, run!
Ah, a magical barrier. Alas...
It will not save you.
How...
Y'shtola!
Hold the line, by Rhalgr! Hold the line!
Krile!
Alphinaud!
We saw the smoke and thought we heard explosions. Are we under attack?
The imperials were all over us before we realized what was happening.No one knew where to run or what to do─it was chaos.
Lyse and Master Kemp rallied the guards and bought us enough time to get some of the wounded to safety, but I haven't seen either of them since...
Confound it! If we lose the Reach, this will all have been for naught!
Arenvald─can you escort these people to the Wall?
Aye, sir.
Our place is at the Reach. We must offer such aid and succor as we are able. Saving lives is now our paramount concern.
If we can hold back the imperials until Father sends reinforcements, we may yet turn the tide...
I'll join you. I've done all I can for these people, and you'll be crying out for a healer in there.
I fear you're right. Come, there is no time to lose!
