Grave tidings, walking ones! Grave, grave tidings!
Calm yourself, my gentle friend. What has occurred?
These ones who went to see feathered ones send terrible news! Destroying ones have appeared in Xelphatol!
Destroying ones and captured ones and even frightful godly ones! Feathered ones didn't stand a chance and were sent flapping and squawking!
When did this happen!? Is it too late to help them?
Too late, yes, much too late! But luckily, destroying ones were only passing through, and continued on west. Feathered ones who did not fight were left unharmed.
West... That would be Coerthas.
My lady, the Ishgardians report that the Telophoroi have emerged from the eastern highlands of Coerthas and are marching at speed.
Though their purpose has yet to be determined, the Carteneau Flats would seem their most likely destination. Lord Aymeric has already dispatched his forces, and requests our immediate support.
Tell him he shall have it. The time is come for the Grand Company of Eorzea to prove its worth.
Well...mayhap it is a mercy that we do not have time to stew upon our misfortunes. Come, my friends, let us make haste to Carteneau!
W-Wait! This one almost forgot! Destroying ones were said to be led by cackling robed one! This one must see that all walking ones know! Farewell!
Fandaniel?
Who else. It was only a matter of time before that grinning maniac showed himself again.
I shall have an airship readied to bear you to Carteneau. Pray see to your preparations and report to the landing with all haste.
At once, my lady. Let us away.
Forename. It would seem Fordola here has come all the way to Gridania to find us.
I have explained the situation, but she insists her business is urgent.
Aye, and it'll be over sooner if you shut up and come with me.
Arenvald! I can't tell you how good it is to see you!
It arrived a lot sooner than expected, eh? The day I crane my neck up at you...
Only because you're sitting down. Unless...
'Fraid so. The chirurgeons say I may never walk again.
Come on, Alphinaud. It could be worse. Besides, I didn't come here to dampen the mood. Quite the opposite.
All I've ever wanted was to fight for a cause I believe in.
But my fighting days are over. So I want you to fight in my stead. Be the hero I can't.
I am no hero.
That's what they all say, though. No one ever calls themselves a hero. Even the ones who eat primals for breakfast. It's for others to decide.
Look, Alphinaud... You already are a hero, to me and countless others. We see you doing your damndest to protect us all. And you're not alone, are you? There are people who believe in you, just as you believe in them.
I know what's at stake, and how many people are depending on you. But I believe in you. Believe that you'll see it through.
That's why I'm entrusting my dreams to you. Like A'aba and Aulie once entrusted their dreams to me.
There was a time when I would have borne the weight of such expectations without a second thought.
But now...I know just how heavy that burden can be.
To tell the truth, I am beginning to wonder if I chose the right path. Sacrifices will inevitably be made for the sake of the ideals I uphold.
Maybe I am not the person I thought I was. The person you think I am.
I wouldn't presume to tell you. But I will say this...
In spite of everything, you've come this far.
The road ahead might not always be clear, but you've never been one to give up or take the easy way out. And everything you do, you do for others. For a brighter future. I'm proud to call you my friend.
Well, I've said my piece, so I'll let you go. I know you've got more important things to be doing. Just...give what I've said some thought, all right?
I shall, my friend. And we will meet again soon, I promise.
Nothing left for me to do but wave and smile.
You've got a pretty narrow view of what it means to be a hero, do you know that?
You think they're all “forged in the fires of battle”? That it's all about being brave and killing villains?
Alphinaud and the others will carry on their fight, but theirs isn't the only one. There are other ways you can make a difference─if you stop feeling sorry for yourself and put your bloody mind to it.
There's not much chance of me living the quiet life with you around, is there?
If you're content to twiddle your thumbs, thinking of what might've been, that's your lookout. But I reckon you've got some fight left in you.
And I reckon you might be right. If there's a way I can still help my friends, I'll bloody well find it.
You can tell me later what that was all about, but judging by the set of Alphinaud's jaw, it appears to have done him some good.
Thancred and the others have already left the Rising Stones. And according to the communications officer, Amalj'aa and kobold forces are also bound for Carteneau as we speak.
They mean to keep the promise they made in Ala Mhigo, and we must do the same, by saving as many of their tempered kin as possible.
Anyway, the airship is ready to depart. We should get going.
My fellow Scions... As I am sure you will have heard, we can expect no help from Sharlayan, nor are we any closer to discerning the Telophoroi's grand design.
And now, our adversary moves against us in unprecedented numbers, compelling us to answer in kind. The outlook, in short, is bleak. Yet though our foes are many, and we but few, we may still tip the balance in Eorzea's favor.
Of course. We will do what we always do: deal with the ones our allies can't.
A less-than-daunting prospect, judging by your expression. Could it be that you've dispelled your lingering doubts, Alphinaud?
Oh, I doubt I ever will. But as my friends have kindly reminded me, I have come this far, and that must count for something.
Gods be good, Alphinaud! That's what we've been trying to tell you all along.
For one so bright, you can be remarkably dim at times. There is such a thing as overthinking, you know.
Might I suggest that we continue this conversation after the battle? It would appear the Telophoroi have already arrived.
I'll do what I can to cure the tempered, but they'll have to be incapacitated first.
Have care, my friends, for none can say wherefore our foe did choose this fateful field to be our battleground. Whatever may transpire, pray grant him not the pleasure of deterring you.
Listen well, friends.The Telophoroi are sweeping across Carteneau.
As for the Ascian, he was briefly sighted above the battlefield, but has since vanished.He likely intends to watch events unfold from afar.
Thus far, the movements of the lunar primals have proven difficult to predict.Even when poised to ambush our troops, they instead withdraw for some unknown reason...
Whatever the Telophoroi's plan may be, the primals are our primary targets.
Understood! They will not elude the Scions for long!
We cannot allow ourselves to be stalled here!
So they would overwhelm us with sheer numbers...
I will keep them occupied! The rest of you, seek out the primals!
Let us divide our forces that we may locate the primals more swiftly. Thancred, Y'shtola, and I shall head east...
I'll concentrate my efforts on the tempered. With luck, I should have the chance to cure some of them.
Then I'll go west. Forename, Alphinaud─ Come with me.
We are counting on you!
Have faith and victory shall be ours.
This way!
Let's get moving!
I do not see any primals...
Something's not right...
Something's not right...
Th-There are so many of them...
I won't be curing anyone at this rate... We'll have to incapacitate them first!
Their tempering has gone too far to treat them here on the battlefield...
With this degree of physical alteration, I fear they are beyond help. Imperials or no, I hate to see them in such pain...
We must see that their suffering is not prolonged!
It seems we've earned a moment's respite...
Then let us take this opportunity to cure the tempered!
With me, Alisaie!
Do you see that?
The glyph? Yes. How worried should we be?
Listen well, and judge for yourself. Though I can see aetherial currents, I had not thoroughly examined those that flow through the heart of Carteneau. But now that I am here, things have become clear.
The Flats conceal an aetheric confluence, like to the pillars of the Azim Steppe, but greater in scale. Far greater.
The glyphs that Fandaniel has conjured reach into its very midst...
...And I believe I know their purpose. Should the lunar primals destroy them, it would spark a chain reaction with the potential to obliterate the confluence entirely.
The resultant disruption to the flow of aether would sow chaos among the elements, prompting earthquakes, floods, and tempests large enough to lay waste to the realm.
That he would go so far cometh as little surprise. We must needs protect the confluence at all costs.
Is that...Odin? So the time has come to pit my blade against his. Follow my lead!
Can't...move...
Leave the chains to me! Urianger, it's your turn to act as shield!
This does not bode well... We'd best brace ourselves!
I've let my guard down!
Ugh... Such strength! It will take all three of us to protect the confluence!
But first, Thancred doth require our aid!
Stay close to me!
The best defense is a good defense!
Now it's our turn!
We were fortunate on this occasion...
Odin is preparing to strike again! Stay out of his reach, but guarding the confluence must come first!
Odin is preparing to strike again! Stay out of his reach, but guarding the confluence must come first!
That must be Ravana! A formidable opponent, by all accounts, but so are we!
So it falls to us to protect the confluence from this fiend...
Like moths to the flame... We have to keep them from the confluence, but there are so many!
Then allow me! A quick casting of Break should buy us time!
Look out!
That was a little close for comfort...But now's our chance!
He's gathering aether... G'raha, try stopping him with Break!
I have a way of breaking his defenses, but I'll need time. Keep him occupied!
Understood! Let us hope that Break works as intended...
Haaaaaa...!
All right, I'm ready... It's now or never!
All right, I'm ready... It's now or never!
Lunar Ifrit... The one Arenvald and Fordola encountered!
This one is not to be taken lightly. Be on your guard.
Whatever those are, they bode ill for us. Smash them to pieces, before it's too late!
I do not like the look of that...
Leave this one to me!
