Claxio... These ones are your friends... Come with these ones... Serve primal one together...
No! This one is good one! Will never go with bad ones!
Meddling one not smart to anger this one... This one has many friends in the forest...
Hurry up, Papalymo―I can't bear this stench any longer!
I'm doing the best I can! If we dispatch the sylphs, surely...
A morbol!? And things were going so well...
There's something not right about this morbol. Ignore it and focus your attacks on the sylphs!
N-No...not stinky one! Stinky one is scary! Stinky one's stink makes this one's head go spinning!
Ick! Forename―Papalymo and I can handle this beast. You take care of the sylphs!
Th-This one is...safe? This one was so scared...
Claxio! This one has been worried! So very worried! Is Claxio unharmed? Still in possession of wits?
K-Komuxio? And meddling one as well... Why are these two here?
These two came to rescue Claxio! That Claxio is safe fills this one with joy!
Komuxio...forgive this one. This one did not mean to run away from Little Solace. This one was just...afraid.
These ones who live at Little Solace were changing─becoming friendly with other ones.
This one feared that these ones were forgetting who these ones are...like touched ones did. But this one was wrong. This one can see that now.
Meddling─er, helpful one. This one is grateful. This one will return to Little Solace to be with Komuxio and friendly ones.
Well, that should see to that. What say we return to Little Solace as well? I, for one, could do with a nice, hot bath.
This one thought Claxio was lost forever. Helpful one saved Claxio―now these ones can be family again.
This one has known many walking ones―even many kind walking ones―but helpful one is kindest and strongest of all. Helpful one is a hero to these ones.
Helpful one will bring these ones and walking ones closer together―this one knows. This one would take helpful one to see elder one.
But elder one is... Elder one is...
This one must ask kind one's forgiveness. This one made promise to take kind one to see elder one, yes? But this one cannot...
This one cannot because...elder one is not here. Elder one is not anywhere. Elder one went into forest yesterday, but has not come back...
This one is worried. Elder one often goes into forest, but never, never for this long. Kind one will help find elder one, yes?
Near where elder one disappeared is the home of a walking one named Buscarron. Buscarron may know what happened to elder one.
This one would talk to Buscarron...but walking ones do not always trust these ones. Would kind one talk to Buscarron for this one?
And kind one comes from Gridania, yes? In Gridania live many kind ones, yes?
This one begs of kind one. Please go to Gridania and ask fellow kind ones for help. And please hurry─these ones are not safe until elder one returns.
Well, if it isn't our intrepid ambassador. How fare your diplomatic efforts with the sylph tribes?
Their elder's gone missing, you say!? Why, if he were to end up in the hands of the tempered ones, we'd have a crisis on our hands.
You can assure the sylphs that my sharpest-eyed Serpents will be on the lookout night and day.
No stone must be left unturned. I would ask you to call upon Giah Molkoh at Bentbranch Meadows and deliver the message that the Wood Wailers are needed in the search effort.
