Are you hurt, Khloe?
Um... Are you okay?
That was so frightening, but so exciting at the same time! I'm gonna write about you in my diary!
Thank you, thank you, thank you! Khloe's safe, and it's all because of you!
But I was only─ Ah, never mind that. You're most welcome, of course.
I'm not sure what to call what just happened, but the word “miracle” comes to mind. Did I truly vanquish that bloodthirsty brute of a shark?
That you did, and without a single scratch on our guests. You showed them what the Sunshine Savior stands for and gave them a display they won't soon forget. All on your own, too.
But even a savior isn't invincible, eh? Go with Beaudefoin and get yourself checked. Wouldn't want you to be done in by a few scrapes.
Forename and I will keep an eye on things here in case any other seaborne predators decide to try their luck.
Ah, you've returned.
Thanks to you two, talk of the Adventurers' Guild is on the lips of all in Costa del Sol. As far as I'm concerned, we can consider the Sunshine Savior a rousing success and a boon for the guild.
Lyonell here deserves a standing ovation for the bravery he displayed. Taking down a fiend like that and keeping the younglings safe is a feat very few can boast of.
As my vision dimmed, I heard Forename call out to me. It was her words that delivered me from the brink, and allowed me to go further still.
They might call me the Sunshine Savior, but you're the true hero of the day. You've given me the courage to go on alone, and for that there is no way I can repay you.
Indeed our savior had a savior of his own. A fact we're all grateful for.
I'm of a mind to make you an honorary Sunshine Savior, suit and all. Wear it well, and don't ask me how many more of these I have stashed away.
Now go on, forget your worries and take in your fill of the festivities, for the Moonfire Faire is safe so long as Lyonell stands as its guardian!
Aye, I shall remain vigilant for any signs of trouble. And if aught appears to threaten the peace...
I'll be there to stop it!
I reckon you're proud to call yourself an honorary Sunshine Savior, but we've got Lyonell to protect us from now on. Go on and enjoy yourself for once!
All is clear on these festive shores!
Of course, we have you to thank for this peaceful reprieve. But now stewardship of the Moonfire Faire falls to me!
I will stand vigilant, day and night. I promise to make you proud, Forename!
That's our savior?
Aye, it takes courage to wear something like that...
Oh, thank the gods Khloe is safe...
You weren't scared, Khloe?
Of course not, T'kebbe! The savior was amazing!
The colors of summer should lend themselves splendidly to new garments.
The sea here looks so different than in Thavnair... I could stare at it forever!
We're here to glean inspiration for Tataru Taru's Boutique!
If trouble comes knocking, the Sunshine Savior will scare it off!
Even if it's a shark that's thiiis big!
H-hey! Don't tempt fate like that!
What scent drew that shark here, I wonder?
Someone said there's a breathtaking vista next to the course.
Really!? Promise we'll go later.
I hear that a master of making confectionaries has come to enjoy the festivities.
I want you to make pudding! The best pudding in this realm or any other!
Everyone here's having so much fun!
If only the moon had something like this...
