Hm... I'm not familiar with your footfalls.
Looks like some sort of salvage yard... Well, let's ask after Gulool Ja.
Gulool Ja isn't here.
You know the boy? Have you seen him?
Oh. Forgive me, I didn't know you were...
No offense taken. My name is Taapu. My eyes may be useless, but my ears are sharper for it. I can recognize people by their footfalls, including Gulool Ja.
So he didn't come this way... Where in the world could he be?
I do not know your voices. Who are you to Gulool Ja, and why do you search for him?
I'm...family. Though we're not related by blood, his father is my brother.
I've only just met Gulool Ja, and we haven't had the chance to talk properly.
But I'm about to do something that will make him hate me, and I wanted the chance to explain.
His father is your brother? Then that means you're...
Yes. I'm Wuk Lamat, Vow of Resolve of Tuliyollal.
And I've journeyed here to bring my brother Zoraal Ja to account for murdering our people and our father.
When all is said and done, Gulool Ja may want nothing to do with me.
Nonetheless, I'll always consider him family. I'll always be there for him, and I want him to know that.
It tears you apart to do what you must. The quiver in your voice tells the tale.
Gulool Ja was headed south. There, he has a place that is as close to a home as he knows.
Find and bare your heart to him.
Should he in turn bare his heart to you, accept and respect his wishes. As Queen Sphene respected ours when she granted us a place in her realm.
I will, don't worry.
But, uh...what do you mean when you say Sphene respected your wishes?
Out of concern for our well-being, Her Majesty had urged us to reside inside Everkeep.
When we declined, not only did she gracefully accept our decision─she granted us the necessary supplies to make our home here.
And since then, she has paid us regular visits to see how we fare.
Heh, that sounds like Sphene alright...
Well, thanks for telling me about Gulool Ja. I'll find him, and then we'll have a good talk.
We continue south, it seems. Let's keep our eyes peeled as we make our way.
Gulool Ja appears to prefer solitude, but deep down he is lonely. Small wonder given his abandonment.
Take good care of him, will you? I myself am quite fond of the boy.
It's a town...
And half of it is submerged!
The architecture looks nothing like what we've seen so far. It's more...Sharlayan.
Ah! There he is, among the ruins!
I only caught a glimpse, but there's no mistaking that tiny silhouette.
Let's hurry after him. It'd be a disaster if a building collapsed while he's inside!
I only saw him for a moment before he disappeared behind a building, but I'm pretty sure Gulool Ja was heading further south.
I'll contact Alisaie on linkpearl and let her know to join us.
This is the area, but the canals and the debris make it hard to get a good view...
Let's split up and search. If you could head into the canals, I'll make my way through the streets.
When we find Gulool Ja, let's watch from a distance until he gets to his destination. Wouldn't want to startle him and cause an accident.
Alisaie is coming as fast as she can. Let's keep searching in the meantime.
Alisaie is coming as fast as she can. Let's keep searching in the meantime.
Oh dear...
Hm?
...
Whew!
Uwaaah!
He's come a long way on such short legs. It's a relief he didn't get hurt.
What's here, I wonder.
So he's looking after those little ones.
Gulool Ja...
