I won't keep you long─just wanted to say thanks for wakin' us up, is all. Tailfeather's made up o' folk who come here seekin' their fortune, you see, an' such folk tend to put themselves first.
But most of us are ashamed we didn't lift a finger to help them as were in need, an' we're determined to do better from now on. To be sure, gettin' called “craven bloody bastards” stung at first, but after the grumblin' died down, none could deny that it was the truth. An' that's all I wanted to say.
You certainly have a knack for moving people, my friends, though I suppose it is only to be expected of bards! But come, let us speak of the song you seek─the Ballad of Oblivion.
Coerthan legend speaks of a saint of song in the heavens. This saint is an individual with transcendent mastery over poetry and verse, and 'tis said that he can bring a battle to its conclusion with a song.
As for being in the heavens, I suspect it is a figurative expression, but I cannot say for certain at this juncture. I shall investigate the legend further─a small gesture of gratitude for having saved our lives.
While we wait to hear from Master Sylviel, let us conduct our own investigation. Coerthan literature may yield us some clues.
If you ask me, it sounds like naught but a faerie tale. I'd wager that “heavens” is just a metaphor for a natural phenomenon. We've hit a dead end─I say we return to Gridania for now and look for other avenues.
And if you ask me, I think it far too early to draw conclusions. I, for one, mean to continue searching until I find a definite answer. If you wish to abandon our mission, I'll not stop you.
But know that you would be judged a deserter. You would lose your place in the Gods' Quiver...and that would be precisely what your superiors had intended.
Look, Guydelot. You of all people must know the true reason they chose you for this mission. They wanted you out of the way! Your skills had naught to do with it!
And it isn't so different for me! I was a thorn in their side, demanding cooperation when they were loath to give it! They were pleased to be rid of me as well, yet naught would please them more than for us to come back empty-handed!That is why we must succeed! That is why we must find the Ballad of Oblivion!
If you want to find the song so badly, you can bloody well find it yourself. I've had a gutful.
You're no bard─I doubt you even understand what gives a song its power. Yet here you are gallivanting about searching for one.
To you, the Ballad of Oblivion is just a means to curry favor with the brass hats. Well, that's an insult to honest-to-gods bards like me and Forename.
Oh, gods, what have I done? I did not mean to be antagonizing...
Though my pride won't let me tell him this, I know that Guydelot is a truly exceptional bard. With his skills married to my unit composition, I had hoped that we might prove our detractors wrong. Alas, my words failed to convey that intent.
Given time, I believe that Guydelot will come around. I shall wait for him here. Meanwhile, I ask that you have patience with us.
Ah, it's you, Forename. If you are wondering about Guydelot, I'm afraid I've not seen him since he stormed out.
But I have spoken with Master Sylviel. As promised, he looked into the Coerthan legend─the saint of song in the heavens─and he came to share his findings.
Apparently, “the heavens” is a reference to a voice from the sky. It is most likely some form of natural phenomena, such as thunder and lightning.
Which means that Guydelot was right. After all, what else could a voice from the sky be? It isn't as though there are people who dwell in the clouds, and love to sing besides.
...What!? A tribe of moogles in the Churning Mists!? Why didn't you say so earlier!?
If these moogles are patrons of music like their forest-dwelling counterparts, they may well know of the Ballad of Oblivion. Please, you must show me to their village!
As for Guydelot... 'Twould seem he still requires time alone. But I daresay he will come after us once he hears we are on the right track.
Might I trouble you to leave a message with Master Sylviel, informing Guydelot of our destination? I shall await you at Anyx Trine.
Hah, 'twas but a matter of time before you found him. Lest you wonder, Guydelot has been watching you and Sanson from afar. Several times did he come to ask what I had been discussing with his friend.
...Moogles at the summit of Sohm Al? I was not aware of this. And I certainly wouldn't discount the possibility that the legend may in fact refer to the creatures.
Guydelot, you should settle your differences with Sanson and go to the Churning Mists with your friends. Being stubborn is wearisome business, you know.
Damn it... I want to, but...ugh... Forename, you always seem to know what's best. Tell me, what should I do?
You reckon I should go as well, eh? I'll...I'll think on it.
You want me to think for myself, is that it? Well, then, I'll do just that.
Such an imposing structure... Were Guydelot here, he would doubtless be inspired to compose a song.
From here on, I must rely upon you to lead the way. Let us ascend to the Churning Mists!
Such a magnificent view... I have no gift for verse. I must commit this scene to memory, that I might convey it all to Guydelot when next we meet.
Now then, 'tis only meet that we first present ourselves to the chieftain of Moghome. Let us seek him out.
The Ballad of Oblivion... I had not expected to hear the name from you, kupo.
It is a terrible, terrible song. Hence it is forbidden among mooglekind. Why, just earlier, I gave one of our bards a dressing-down simply for asking about it!
Ah, young Mogta... He was ever the inquisitive one. I hope he understands that I mean well. Lest you wonder, after being scolded, he flew off sulking and headed north of Moghome. That's Mogta, and to the north, kupo!
Hmmm... Forename, would you mind meeting up with me outside the village?
Despite making much of the song's forbidden nature, it's clear that Chieftain Moglin wanted us to meet the moogle who shares our interest in it.
What his motives are, I cannot say, but I see no harm in seeking out the bard of which he spoke. Twelve forbid you have forgotten this, but his name is Mogta, and he should be north of Moghome.
I cannot seem to find the little creature. And I was so certain that the chieftain had intended for us to seek him out...
