It has indeed. You're lookin' more imposin' since last I saw you, Wuk Lamat.
Tankwa?
My Turali moniker. Gulool Ja Ja insisted I take one, sayin' my birth name was too cumbersome for the local tongues.
That birth name being “Ketenramm,” I presume.
NO!
Ketenramm's that legendary Eorzean sailor! The one with the pickled cabbage!
...We can talk about me cabbage later.
Zereel Ja. Whether you like it or no, these young'uns accomplished the feat.
To deny Wuk Lamat her reward would be to betray the Dawnservant's trust.
And what should she be rewarded for!? Calling upon her minions to carry her to victory!?
Comrades... You believe a ruler should be reliant upon such?
I don't have dignity. Not anymore. I wagered everything on this feat.
And by the same token, I understand the enormity of your accomplishment.
Together, we can achieve anything. You needn't place your faith in the promise of blessed siblings.
How would you have us reclaim our glory?
With friendship and community. With us.
If you mean to rule, you should be more sparing with your offers of clemency. Especially to a man who has sacrificed countless young lives.
Nevertheless...I will fulfill my charge as elector. In recognition of your feat...I bestow upon you a keystone.
Congratulations...are nearly in order, I suppose. I'm confident that you will find the golden city in no time.
You've grown much and more during this journey. Become someone ready to lead our nation.
Little Lamaty'i no longer. As your brother, I couldn't be more proud.
Koana...thank you.
I must express my gratitude for your cooperation...and my regret for failing to live up to expectations.
Nonsense. If you believe Wuk Lamat is the woman for the job, then you have our wholehearted support.
One last thing. I wish to speak to you both from the heart. Unpracticed as I am, this may sound hackneyed, but...
I am truly grateful to have met you.
Words spoken with such feeling would resonate with any fortunate enough to hear them.
Though our journey together hath ended, ever shall we cherish the memories.
Aye. And should you require further esoteric musings or biting witticisms, don't hesitate to call. I daresay we'll come flocking.
But I get ahead of myself. As I recall, our contract remains in effect until we've escorted the Second Promise back to the capital.
I leave my sister in your capable hands. See that she returns home safely!
You've still malms to go yet, Wuk Lamat. The rite ain't over till ye find the city of gold.
I know. But if I can come this far, I can go all the way.
...I will not stand in your way.
But mark me─your victory does not afford you authority to dictate our future. We will decide what is best for Mamook. No one else.
I am glad to see you all remain in one piece.
Even as a shade, the Dawnservant's strength was incredible. I shudder to imagine how we might have fared without the Second Promise's support.
The Second Promise has warmed a great deal since we first met him. I daresay that wise and witty duo has been of no little influence.
Joyed though I am by this outcome, I am also eager to speak with Ketenramm while we have the chance.
Naught like a bit o' hardship to see yer precious children grow into fine adults.
Let's go and tell the people of our victory!
Third Promise!
You brought everyone? We were just coming to you!
We did it, Miilal Ja. We proved to the Autarch that not even my father's full power could overcome the strength of our fellowship.
I knew you would. I was right to trust you.
You fulfilled your promise. Now, it's our turn.
You've shown us another way. That we can build the lives we've always wanted. Here, in our homeland, without sacrifice!
Since our new crops will come from across the salt, I suppose we will have to treat with outsiders... A-As equals, of course.
Inside or outside, we're all just people. No matter what we look like or where we're born.
When you're not used to all the color and variety, differences can feel like obstacles.
But by learning more about what makes us different, we can also find common ground in places we never expected. Something new may become something you love!
And someone you once hated might one day become your friend.
You'll never know unless you keep an open mind. And while it may feel scary, taking that first step towards understanding is always worth it.
Of course... Learning about outsiders may well help Mamook grow.
But what happens when they learn about us? About what we've done?
They will not.
For generations, our covenant has been kept secret, and so shall it remain.
The atrocities committed here were facilitated by the Autarchs. We and no one else are responsible.
For my deeds, I am prepared to forfeit my life. But I will not suffer others to be damned alongside me.
No one's being damned. And your life isn't forfeit.
The last thing this city needs is more death. Bakool Ja Ja hasn't fought this hard for this long only to lose his father.
If you truly feel responsible, be the first person to extend understanding to others on behalf of Mamook.
Your community is waiting for you─here and in Tuliyollal.
We can still make things right, my love. Choose a different side of history.
Thank you, Third Promise. Thank you for everything.
...You still owe me an explanation about that cabbage, you know.
...You still owe me an explanation about that cabbage, you know.
It's never too late to let go of prejudice. No matter how difficult it may seem, it can be done.
We ought to speak with Ketenramm before we do anything else.
Tankwa does look similar to some Eorzean sailors I've seen, but I never would have guessed he was Ketenramm!
Of all the things I expected to discover in Tural, Eorzea's most legendary sailor was not among them...
This is my first time meeting Ketenramm. A Roegadyn if I ever saw one.
This ain't no place for a proper chat.
Me cabin's just north of the city. “Blue-eyes' Abode,” as people here call it on account of me dazzlin' twinklers.
Naught but four walls and a roof, but enough for most folk. Make yerselves comfortable.
A rather humble residence for a legendary explorer. I would've expected a manor decorated with exotic treasures.
The man values his privacy...
I wonder how long it's been since he settled down here...
I've heard that upon Ketenramm's disappearance, explorers from across Eorzea banded together in search of him. But I doubt they ever thought to look here...
Why did you choose to settle down in Mamook? They haven't exactly been welcoming to outsiders─legendary explorer or otherwise.
All the more reason to keep a weather eye on 'em. Though seein' how ye've won them over, methinks I'll have less need for vigilance.
I'm here at Gulool Ja Ja's behest to ensure his hard-won peace is kept. And, incidentally, to remind Zereel Ja of his duty as elector should he have forgotten it.
My old man ordered you to stay here? That's no way to treat an honored guest...
Heh. I'd say I'm more than yer father's “guest” by now. Or didn't ye see the sepulchre atop Worqor Zormor?
That's right...“Ketenramm” was one of the names!
Yer father and I fought shoulder to shoulder in many a battle, Valigarmanda bein' but one of our triumphs. He and I are brothers.
So when yer brother tells you to stand watch, ye stand watch. Ye trust in his judgment an' his strength of will─even if that means ye have to sit out the occasional scrap.
Surely you understand such a bond? Surrounded as ye are by all these bright an' eager faces.
I do. My comrades are my strength─and it's thanks to them that I understand Papa's hopes for this nation. What I must continue to protect.
Then prove yer readiness for the throne, Wuk Lamat. Find the golden city!
Oh, I will. With these ones beside me, even uncovering a legend should be child's play!
Especially since I believe I already have.
All by yourself!? How!? When!?
Well, as you know, electors are forbidden from giving unfair advantage to claimants.
So when Hunmu Rruk refused to divulge why my grandfather passed through Iq Br'aax twenty years ago, his silence spoke volumes.
You think Galuf's visit had something to do with the golden city?
Precisely. Moreover, only the Yok Huy who lived in Yak T'el ever dreamt those golden dreams.
When exposed to certain triggers, those with magical aptitude have been known to receive visions.
And if Gurfurlur's abilities are at all representative, the Yok Huy are no stranger to the arcane...
Which means the dreamers of eld likely owe their experiences to their inherent qualities and their proximity to the city itself. Here, in these forests.
Then all we need to do is search Yak T'el from top to bottom, right?
It would behoove us to try and narrow our focus. To that end, I propose we return to Mamook and make inquiries.
While there, we can all take the opportunity to see to any necessary travel preparations. When everyone is ready, let us assemble at the aetheryte.
...You're Cahciua's boy, ain't ye?
She told me about you. Said she tasked ye with findin' the golden city.
Aye. I might even succeed, despite my best efforts.
I had begun to think it was a fool's errand. My own fruitless search in my youth proved as much.
Yet here you are, older and wiser, playin' the fool again.
Courtesy of the company I've been keeping, perhaps. Wuk Lamat's not the only one to have grown thanks to her comrades.
We'll find it. Together.
Heh. Was I ever that young...?
So you're the Forename Surname I've heard so much about. Seems every time I visit the capital, I hear another tale of yer derrin'-do from traders and dockhands.
Wuk Lamat chose her team well, indeed.
You waited for me? It seems Ketenramm knows my mentor, so we chatted for a bit longer.
Alphinaud said to meet by the aetheryte, so I'll see you there.
The merchants were more than happy to mend my gear and sell me supplies.
One would hardly believe that they were ever averse to aiding visitors.
Hehe! You won't believe how many najool they gave me!
Now all we need is a hint to point us in the right direction. City of gold, here we come!
I think I can offer that much.
I have an inkling of where the golden city might be.
Miilal Ja! A-And Zereel Ja!? You've come to help us?
As an elector, I am forbidden from speaking of the golden city. ...But my wife is beholden to no such constraints.
Then anything you can tell us would be greatly appreciated.
Our people have lived here for centuries. There is no corner of this forest we do not intimately know─save for one.
Do you recall the place I showed you, where my son confessed the truth of blessed siblings?
That stone pier stands at the entrance of the Skydeep Cenote. The final resting place for children we lost to our zealotry.
Precious few are permitted beyond the cenotaph doors, and we have not explored its deepest recesses. If the golden city is in Yak T'el, it may well be hidden there.
Will you permit us to search for it?
...I have no reason to refuse you.
No longer will we rely on blessed siblings, nor will we conceal the sacrifices made to conceive them.
The cenote is no longer under our protection. It is a dismal burial ground...and our children deserve better. Their bodies will be moved to a place of comfort and peace.
I'm sure Bakool Ja Ja would appreciate that. And we're here to offer any help, if you need it.
Your father also visited the cenote, come to think of it.
It was many years ago by now, but a notable affair due to the foreigner he brought with him. A mage, I believe.
Truly!?
The Dawnservant did not disclose his reasons, but he descended past our cenotaph and into the old Yok Huy quarries.
Doubtless the very same ones excavated by Vorporlor's dreamers.
Then the golden city must be there.
In the depths of the Skydeep Cenote!
Thank you, both of you. We'll set out straightaway!
You will find a winged beast or two lingering in Gok Draak Descent. They will carry you below.
I believe in you, Third Promise. You will make a magnificent Dawnservant.
This is it, everyone. To the Skydeep Cenote!
This is the cenotaph. Which means that beyond these doors is...
Rite of succession or no, disturbing the souls that rest here feels wrong.
I know...but I can't turn back. Let's pay our respects, at the very least.
Let's go.
I'm ready to complete my journey.
I confess, I anticipated my duty as a guide with no little weariness.
I knew our journey might change the course of my nation, but...I did not think it would change the course of my own life.
Part of me is sad to see our journey end...but I have to see what's waiting for us in there!
I don't know what's down there, but I'm eager to see it with my own eyes.
Cenotaphs are notorious for attracting malefic creatures. We must exercise all due caution.
Wuk Evu, Mablu...so many people have helped us reach this moment. Let us honor their generosity and find the golden city at last!
Let's go, everyone.
Stay on your guard. There's no telling what we might encounter.
Look at all those roots...
Beneath the water...
We won't forget these children. Not ever.
Looks like a species of ray...
Whatever it is, we have to fight it.
Whatever it is, we have to fight it.
Does anyone else feel...itchy?
I fear we've been cursed...
Whoa!
So the attacks are coordinated...
I mustn't let everyone down...
I mustn't let everyone down...
Prioritize evasive measures!
Argh! Enough already!
Everyone, keep your focus!
Didn't stand a chance!
Everyone all right? Then let us proceed.
So these are the Yok Huy quarries...
Look at all of these statues...
Everyone stay alert. Something's amiss...
