Well, look who it is. I won't say no to the help, but I'm not best pleased that we need it.
You're here for the old man, yes? He's at the top. You'd best hurry.
Lady Yotsuyu, we're here to rescue you! Please come with us!
Stay back, Tsuyu.
Are you all right!?
Is he all right?
Gosetsu!
Damn it! We took too long. Change of plan─eliminate hostiles!
All forces─attack!
Focus on the enemy! We'll see to Lady Yotsuyu when they're dead!
Come, let us even the odds!
Reinforcements! I need reinforcements!
That they should still have magitek armor in reserve... Steel yourselves!
Bah, we have no time for this!
Watch out! He means to blow it up!
Damn it! Reinforcements! I need more reinforcements!
Two of them... We shall need a strategy.Forename, draw the armor this way!
Have care! We know not what we face!
Back! All of you!
Mist and shade─take form and go forth!
There are too many... Draw them to me─I shall finish this!
Forename, my shadows and I shall tend to half. The rest is yours!
All right─brace yourselves!Stars above...rain destruction upon mine enemies!
Gosetsu! Thank the heavens!
Yugiri, my friends... The kami were kind to guide your steps this way.
It's over. The imperials are retreating. I suppose we have you to thank for that.
But they would never have come here were it not for her. I had a bad feeling the moment your samurai friend arrived with that woman in tow.
Do not be afraid, Tsuyu. These people are my friends.
Friends?
Forgive me, but at the risk of souring the mood, I believe you owe us an explanation. You may start by telling us what happened at Doma Castle.
Of course. I'll not begrudge you that. As you know, we were trapped inside the keep when it collapsed. But even as the roof crumbled above us, so too did the floor below.
We were swept out into the One River, where we would surely have drowned had a stout wooden door not chanced to float by, offering us a raft of sorts.
Exhausted, we drifted out to sea, at the mercy of the tides...which saw fit to dispense us on a desert island.
She was with you the entire time?
Aye. 'Twas her kimono which saved her from Hien's blade, believe it or not. Some Garlean witchcraft in the weave.
But it offered precious little protection against the fall. Though she survived, she awoke bereft of all her memories, and speaking like a child.
A trick, surely?
That was my first thought, aye. And I contemplated cutting her down and being done with it. Contemplated it long and hard...
Yet the kami saw fit to deliver us from certain death. 'Twas their will that we survive. Both of us. Together. And together we shall go before our master. He shall be the one to judge.
Judge what...?
She's your prisoner, old man. Do with her as you will. Call her “Tsuyu” or whatever else tickles your fancy.
'Twas a name given out of necessity whilst on the road. Nothing more.
As you say.
But remember this: our people suffered much at that woman's hands. When the time comes, I trust you won't let emotion blind you to what needs to be done.
You have my word.
Well, I must be going─I've an unholy mess to clean up. You should be on your way too, before the imperials decide to take another tilt. Oh...and we'll overlook the tithe this once. You're welcome.
As Tansui says, we should move on. It would not do for Yotsuyu to be seen here.
Now, if I know my sister, she will already be waiting with the boat at the nearby pier. Let's go and see if I'm right.
Gosetsu! Thank the gods you're safe! It was all I could do to watch the battle from afar!
And it was all I could do to restrain her.
Can you blame me for worrying? Strong as Forename is, anything could happen in the chaos.
...But enough about me. We need to talk about her.
Um... Greetings?
They tell me you've lost your memory─and that's fine. But I want you to know something: I won't be taking my eyes off you. Not for a moment.
These people are strange. Are you sure they're your friends?
I am. They may behave...strangely, but I trust them with my life. You have naught to fear.
All right, if you say so.
...
R-Right! 'Tis past time we set sail! I for one would not keep Lord Hien waiting without due cause.
Aye, and the longer we tarry, the more we risk inviting trouble. Lest you forget, the Red Kojin bear no love for Yotsuyu either.
I shall deliver you to familiar shores, near Isari but out of the villagers' sight.
Here is where we part ways, my friends. I pray the remainder of your journey passes uneventfully.
Forename, when you are not otherwise occupied, I would speak with you about my next business venture.
It promises to be extremely lucrative, and I do not say so lightly.
After the prodigious sum spent acquiring a certain sword, it would present a fine opportunity to refill the Scions' coffers and restore the smile to Mistress Tataru's face!
Oh, come along─Tataru was overreacting. How much could a single katana possibly cost?
Far more than you think, plainly.
A blade like Gosetsu's is worth a fortune. Enough to buy a house and furnish it. Which you would know had you bothered to check the price.
What? I-I had no idea...
Th-This business venture of Soroban's─you will give it fair hearing, I trust? He has been good to us, after all! As for me, I...I think I shall look into drawing upon my personal funds...
We must meet with Lord Hien as soon as possible─though mayhap not at the enclave...
I will send word requesting that he receive us at the House of the Fierce, where there are fewer prying eyes.
If all are in agreement, I shall scout ahead and see that the way is clear. Pray follow as swiftly as you are able, and join me on the outskirts of Namai.
All is well?
Good. The others are hiding nearby. Let us proceed─quietly, if you please.
My lord Hien. I am returned.
Save your tears for the morrow. For we who yet walk the path should not think too much on the destination.
When the hour arrives, we shall welcome what comes with open arms.
And welcome it you did, even as the keep fell down around us. At that moment, in your smile, I spied a shred of hope. One which I have clung to ever since.
Gosetsu. Full glad am I to see you alive and well.
We have played this scene before, have we not? Though this time our roles are reversed.
That they are.
Meaning you know how I feel.
Wholly at a loss for words. Welcome back, old friend!
Now then, though we rejoice at your return, it seems you have brought with you certain...complications.
Rise, my friend. Tell me everything.
The Empire is bold indeed to send a token force to engage the Confederacy.
As acting viceroy, Yotsuyu would have been privy to imperial secrets. The Garleans will not soon give up the chase.
Nay. It will end with her capture...or her death.
Are you a friend too?
She claims to have lost her memory, though I know not if she speaks true. I brought her here that you might decide her fate.
Lost her memory, you say...
Regardless, the people have not forgotten. Her face yet haunts their dreams. She cannot roam free. We will hold her here for a time.
Place her in Jifuya's care, with the express instruction that she is not to be seen.
Yes, my lord.
Come.
N-No, I don't want to.
Don't let her take me away!
It's all right, Tsuyu. I will come with you. Be a good girl and listen to Yugiri.
From a hound at his throat to a puppy at his heel...
If this is an act, it is a remarkable performance.
Thank you for delivering Gosetsu back to us in one piece. We are lucky indeed to have friends who would journey to the other side of the world to help us─and repeatedly, at that.
We have much and more to think upon, but as regards the Empire, we can but watch and wait.
Now then, seeing as you've come all this way, you must allow me to show you around the enclave. I would not have you thinking we've been idle in your absence.
The rebuilding effort proceeds apace, I'm pleased to say, and we are now ready to welcome home our countrymen who were displaced by the war. Should they so desire it, there is a place here for those who fled to Eorzea.
We should be delighted to accept your invitation, Lord Hien. And I have no doubt that your subjects at Revenant's Toll will be heartened to hear that their lord has not forgotten them.
...Hm? Oh, it's nothing. I just thought that Gosetsu and Yugiri would be back by now.
Forgive me, my lord, but Captain Jifuya is nowhere to be found.
Oh? He was here when I arrived.
For now, we have taken Yotsuyu to a private chamber and assigned another to watch over her, my lord. But I find it passing strange that the captain should leave his post with nary a word.
That does seem most unusual. If you mean to look for the man, we would be happy to assist you.
We should be glad of the help. While I search without, mayhap you could ask our soldiers here if they know anything.
I will join you.
With respect, my lord, you should remain here. Should the Empire move against us, you will be better able to coordinate our response.
Hah! And there I was thinking I was in charge... But you have the right of it. Go on, then. I will mind the House.
You seek the captain? He passed by a little while ago.
I, uh... I wondered if I should tell someone, as it happens. He did not look well, you see. I asked if aught was the matter and he told me the past had caught up with him. But I doubt it was that. There are older men in our ranks.
Captain Jifuya? He was headed for the northern entrance when I saw him last. I was going to invite him to train with us, but he did not hear me call out to him.
If you need him, I daresay the sentry on duty will be able to tell you more. Indeed, I suggested as much to Mistress Alisaie when she came asking earlier. Is something amiss?
