Pray forgive my late visit... I heard the man who called himself a Warrior of Light speak, you see, and saw the stars falling from the heavens.
Cerigg grew tired of my endless fretting and bade me call upon you if it would put my mind at ease. Is there aught you can tell me?
An impostor. I feared you might say that.
I believed him─I wanted to believe him. How wonderful it was that even one of them returned, I thought...
Yet if he is not the man you knew, then...I'm sorry. I know all too well how that feels.
I can only imagine how it must hurt to be unable to speak the truth─how you must abide the lie for fear of condemning those fallen heroes once more.
It may not be my place, but allow me to offer you a few words of advice. As you once did me.
Remember how dear he was to you, and be brave.
O-Oh! I'm not half so eloquent as you, but I hope that it helps!
Good evening.
I was in the Exedra. I saw everything.
That was Ardbert...and it was not. Twice now he has appeared, calling the people to arms. Speaking of “heroes.”
I knew this day might come. Ardbert never did reappear as a Virtue.
But to see his flesh stolen by the selfsame Ascian that made mock of their sacrifice...
I spent years searching for a means to redeem their legacy. His legacy. And in you, I found it. You slew the Virtues, reclaimed the stars...
You spoke the truth, and the people listened. When I heard our patrons speak of how the Warriors of Light had been their saviors all along, I thought at last, at long last...
I was a fool.
I cannot ask more of you, not after what you've given. But I must.
Set him free. Lay him to rest with the others, in honor and triumph.
Set him free. Lay him to rest with the others, in honor and triumph.
Foiled again...
If I cannot imbue the infernal thing with my power via magical means, we may need to devise a way to infuse the vessel with my blood after all...
Art thou unwell?
Perhaps a brief respite? It wouldn't do to overtax yourself.
I'm fine...
And given to stubbornness, I'm afraid. Especially when I have a stake in the outcome.
That dream again...
That dream again...
A recurring dream? They do so fascinate me. Might I trouble you for the details?
I have always dreamed of it... Fire falling from the heavens, and the city─nay, the whole world ablaze.
Indeed... Could Emet-Selch have found a way...? Precious few possess memories of the Final Days.
The Final Days?
Why yes. Admittedly, my knowledge is mostly secondhand, but if you are interested, I will gladly tell you the tale...
The tale of the world's end.
Ah, Mistress Surname. Will you be venturing forth today?
Do be sure to take care if so. Though they say the starshower was harmless, one can never be too careful.
...But I concede it is not for me to tell the Warrior of Darkness how to look after herself. Old habits, you understand.
Ah, Forename! How very opportune!
Greetings, my friend. Do you perchance have a moment to spare?
Wonderful, wonderful!
I wanted to thank you, you see. For revealing to us the truth of the Warriors of Light.
After all these years, your tale set the record straight. Finally, the people see them as the great heroes they were.
Or the great hero he is in the case of Ardbert. You too were surprised to see him, I think?
At the time, I was not certain what to make of it all, but I could see the effect his words had on those around me. And then the stars rained down from the sky, and...well, you know the rest.
When the commotion died down, you were nowhere to be seen, but I was determined to express my gratitude. And so here I am.
Thank you, Forename─for giving voice to the truth, and restoring the Warriors of Light to their rightful place in history.
Should you, perhaps, wish to have your account of these matters committed to writing, I would be more than willing to serve as your scribe. Indeed, if there is anything I can do to help─anything at all─you need only say the word.
I beg your pardon? You wish to ask me about the Warriors of Light?
Forgive me, but I daresay you already know more about them than any living soul—save for Ardbert himself, of course.
Unless...you refer to the Warriors of Light more broadly?
If so, I may yet be able to assist you in some small way.
The situation in the city? Do you mean...the people's awakening as Warriors of Light?
Well, while questions remain about the circumstances surrounding Ardbert's return, history tells us that what took place may not be entirely unprecedented.
Ah, but to understand that requires an understanding of “Warriors of Light” in a broader Vrandtic context.
If it please you, I should be glad to provide an overview. I flatter myself that it may grant you a better grasp of that which is occurring not only in the Crystarium, but the world at large.
Excellent! I shall return to the Cabinet at once and look up the relevant texts. Pray join me at your earliest convenience.
No rest for the righteous, it would seem.
Do not let me keep you, miss. I bid you a pleasant day.
Ah, Forename, excellent timing. I have but this moment finished gathering the materials for our lesson.
As a great many works make reference to the Warriors of Light, I shall─with your permission─focus only upon the details that seem most relevant.
The Warriors of Light, you say? Forgive us, but we couldn't help overhearing.
We've been out keeping watch over the Crystarium, but it appears to be business as usual.
So I thought I'd spend some time brushing up my knowledge of familiars, and Alphinaud volunteered to help.
I...actually came on a different errand, but I'd be interested in hearing about the Warriors of Light as well.
May I join you?
Of course, of course! The more the merrier!
If you would care to find a table below, I shall be down with the books in a moment.
Were one to pore over the annals of Vrandtic history, one would note the comparatively frequent recurrence of individuals hailed as “Warriors of Light.”
Ardbert and his comrades require no introduction, but many others bore the epithet long before them.
To name but a few, there was Tolthewil, legendary first king of Lakeland, Roddfort and Saulard, the fabled Drahn and Galdjent duo of Voeburt...
And no list of Vrandtic heroes would be complete without the archmage Tiuna of Ronka. In older texts, she too was called a Warrior of Light.
It did surprise me how ready people were to forget the negative associations of the title. But it makes sense if it's been around for centuries.
Verily. In ages past, it was simply a synonym for “hero.”
In the wake of the Flood, however, Light came to be regarded with fear; the title used not to exalt, but to revile.
A far cry from its beginnings...
This, my friends, is Norvrandt's oldest epic. The original tale of the struggle between good and evil.
In a time when all lay shrouded in Darkness, a prophesied hero rose to deliver the world from its doom. Fighting in the name of the Light, the hero styled himself its foot soldier. And thus did he come to be known as “The Warrior of Light.”
Curiously, in the centuries that followed, other heroes appeared who claimed the selfsame epithet, despite sharing no discernible connection with their predecessors.
And in time, Warrior of Light came to be a name accorded to all men and women of uncommon skill and valor.
Well, well... The plot thickens.
As you know, the title of Warrior of Light is also used in the Source.
Though the manners in which individuals have earned it are many and varied, heroes have been honored thus since antiquity.
Nor does the custom show any sign of dying out─as you can well attest.
It makes you wonder, doesn't it... It surely can't be a coincidence.
Indeed not.
Let us imagine a man who has awakened to the Echo and is able to hear Hydaelyn's voice. As She styles him, so too does he style himself─a Warrior of Light.
Of course, being blessed with the Echo does not in itself make one a hero. And conversely, there will have been no few heroes who were not blessed with it.
But such distinctions are immaterial to the masses, and over time they came to use the title “Warrior of Light” and the word “hero” interchangeably.
Sounds about right. It would be interesting to see if the theory holds true in the other worlds─if crossing the rift were that easy.
She did? I've never heard Her voice myself.
But I can feel Her presence. Perhaps through Minfilia.
Well...I think a name can mean a lot. And I imagine it would be terrible to have people call you something which didn't feel right.
B-But you are special! No matter how many Warriors of Light there are out there, there's no one like you!
At any rate, assuming all of this is true, and there's a common thread behind the epithet, I doubt the Ascians will have been amused.
To have the world at large associate Light, and by extension Hydaelyn, with “good” must have added insult to injury.
Ahem. While this discussion is undeniably fascinating, I wonder...should I be privy to it? Mayhap it would be better if I excused myself...?
Oh! No need for that, my friend! Pray accept our apologies. Your lesson on the Warriors of Light has given us much to ponder...
