So you've given him permission.
Teeshal Ja. You will assist Kanilokka.
As one of the Landsguard's finest chirurgeons, your knowledge may be of use in his experiments.
You will also watch him. Closely. And what you learn, you will report to me.
You object to his project? Or are you incapable of performing this duty?
No, Your Majesty...
Whether we shelter within the dome or expand beyond it, we require great power.
But with no one to rely upon, we must take that power for ourselves. Even if the means are questionable.
I will do as you command.
But if Kanilokka's work bears fruit, I wish to beg a boon.
What do you desire?
Something that I had accepted I would never have in Tuliyollal.
That I believed would forever be beyond me─that it was foolish to covet...
But here─here and now, it is close...
So very, very close...
Perform your duty to my satisfaction, and anything you desire is yours.
That which I seek does not lie within this dome. Here, I cannot prove the miracle.
But if what you seek is at hand, then you may claim it. For it has no value to me.
Are you alright?
Teeshal Ja... Could she be my mother?
Like the people in the outskirts said, few Mamool Ja lived in Yyasulani. I can't imagine many other Hoobigo women were trapped in the dome.
That being the case, she could well be the one.
This observatory Kanilokka returned to─could it not be part of the research facility? We might learn something about Teeshal Ja there.
That's where we're going next, then.
Now that the danger is behind us, it's started sinking in just how unsettling this place is. Hard to believe it used to be a village.
That you should be able to peer into the tural vidraal's past... I wonder what that implies for the beast's consciousness while it was sealed away.
Teeshal Ja, you said her name was? I wonder what her story is...
It seems this Kanilokka was in charge here. From your recounting, he was quite dedicated to Zoraal Ja.
The villagers were likely monitoring the imprisoned tural vidraal at Zoraal Ja's behest. And at some point, they became involved in the research of souls...
I wish I could see into the past like you. Then I could see people who are gone.
Because there aren't any other Mamool Ja women here, for a long time I couldn't even imagine what my mother looked like.
But when I visited Tuliyollal and saw some, I was finally able to picture her in my mind.
And one day, I hope I can see what she actually looked like as well.
Is it alright if I go around by myself now?
While we've discerned the purpose of the research conducted here, the traces of it that remain might afford us greater insight into what came of it.
Let us take a look around─for information as well as a way to the upper level.
What happened to the people here? Did they all leave...or did we already meet them?
To think that people actually volunteered their souls for these experiments...
Success was far from guaranteed, and even in the best case, they would cease to be men. Was their devotion to Zoraal Ja so absolute?
I wonder what Beq Lugg would make of this research into transferring souls.
The researchers likely moved between the upper and lower levels. Perhaps we can find a key among their belongings.
It makes me angry to think about what they did here...
It won't open, and I don't think it'll yield to our shoulders either. We'll have to do it the old-fashioned way and find the key.
It won't open, and I don't think it'll yield to our shoulders either. We'll have to do it the old-fashioned way and find the key.
It won't open, and I don't think it'll yield to our shoulders either. We'll have to do it the old-fashioned way and find the key.
It won't open, and I don't think it'll yield to our shoulders either. We'll have to do it the old-fashioned way and find the key.
