Fuel... Gather fuel...
Meddlers... Eliminate...
H-Huh? Where did they go? Why are you here...?
I see you found him in time.
Y-You and your friends came to look for me? I don't know how to thank you...
On my way home, I took a moment to stop and rest. Think about what to do about, well...everything.
And then those men came...
Kidnappers. We'd heard that the Arkasodara were being targeted.
Surely you have as well? Perhaps it's best if you took refuge in the city.
We've considered it, me and the others. But fishing is all we know─the ocean all we have.
I see... That's your decision to make, but you should take care not to travel alone.
A question, if I may.
'Tis our understanding that strange fiends have emerged from the tower. What canst thou tell us of these beings?
Not much, I'm afraid. I have no idea what they are.
But I've heard that some bear an unsettling resemblance to our divinities.
For that reason, some have taken to calling the tower “Zot”...
"House of divinities“ in the old tongue, it means.
But they're not true divinities. They're monstrous imitations that bring only death!
To have one's faith so twisted is a grievous indignity, and full justified art thou in thine outrage.
Know that 'tis for no other purpose but to neutralize the tower that we have journeyed to this land.
In time we may be forced to contend with these false gods, and thus we would learn all we may about them. Wilt thou not tell us of thy divinities and their true nature?
You've come all this way to save us...? Really!? To think I had you peddling fish...
But to answer your question─yes, of course! We would gladly tell you about our gods. “We,” I say, because I'm a terrible storyteller, and I'd ask my fellow villagers to do it.
So please come to our village. We're good, gods-fearing folk, all of us, and we'd be honored to share our knowledge. And fish!
What sayest thou? Shall we pay visit to Akyaali?
Wonderful! Just follow the road west and down the hill─you can't miss it!
So, 'tis the simulacra of Thavnairian gods that are being summoned... If any doubt existed before, there can be none now: the kidnapped Hannish are imprisoned in the tower.
I pray that we will be able to save them...
Though indeed, saving them will mean confronting their false gods, like as not. Aye, as you said, we'd do well to study their religious traditions. To Akyaali.
Familiar though I am with the myths and legends of this island, to hear them spoken by heirs to this storied heritage giveth them new life.
A charming little village. Shame about the hideous tower.
Mark you that platform out on the water. Some manner of shrine, perhaps?
Welcome to Akyaali, my friend! The name means “white beach,” and there isn't much here save that...but please make yourself at home.
Your companions have already begun talking to everyone. Feel free to show yourself around and do the same.
Any one of us can tell you about our gods, but you could do worse than to start with Khanga and old Hasveydah. They're free at the moment, as it happens.
I'll try to think if there is anything useful I can share with you as well. After all, I still owe you for rescuing me on the hill!
