Yes, Lord Commander.
You pursue your foes with less zeal than I had expected, Ser Aymeric.
Lest you misunderstand, I do not deny that our enemy has given us good reason to be prudent. I merely meant─you being a man of faith─that I had expected a certain...single-mindedness. After all, was it not by the will of Halone that your ancestors came to this land─why they took up arms against the Dravanians? What would they have done in your position, I wonder...
...There are those who believe that faith is a renunciation of free will─that unquestioning devotion is required of all who would live a life in service to the Fury.
Such righteous fervor may well serve a knight on the front line─less so a leader of men.
We are all at liberty to interpret the scriptures as we will. I choose to believe that the Fury would value the lives of Her followers over the deaths of Her enemies.
But I would not presume to speak for the knights of eld. 'Twas a different time─nay, a different era─and scripture tells us only so much.
...Would that it told us more.
That man is awfully pragmatic for a servant of the Holy See.
A welcome trait at the negotiating table, to be sure─less so when one's enemies are making ready to harness the power of a god.
Mayhap he does not truly believe that Iceheart's plan can succeed...? Truth be told, I too remain somewhat skeptical.
Shiva was real─a living, breathing woman─of that there can be no doubt. In this respect, she differs from every other figure to have been summoned, each of whom was worshipped as a god.
...The sole exception being Good King Moggle Mog XII─the myth made manifest in response to the fervent supplications of the Mogglesguard.
Saint Shiva may differ, but what of the heretics? They are a tribe of outcasts at war with a mighty nation, who yearn for the resurrection of the one who embodies their beliefs. If that is not placing one's faith in a higher power, then what is?
Crystals and conviction, Minfilia. They have them both in abundance.
...Can that truly be all that is required?
My survey team has concluded a preliminary analysis of the aetheryte Iceheart used to escape. They believe that she teleported to another aetheryte, somewhere not far to the west.
Despite the apparent proximity of this second aetheryte, however, they have been wholly unable to detect its presence directly. Unless Iceheart has some means to mask its signal, I can only presume she had it destroyed to prevent us from following her.
Without the means to teleport as she did, we have no choice but to search for an alternate route─most likely a tunnel─assuming one exists.
Let us not give up on teleportation just yet. One of our colleagues in Sharlayan may be able to assist us.
I pray that you are right. I dare not think how long it will take us to survey the entire tunnel system...
While Minfilia looks into our aetheryte problem, I would like to request your assistance with another matter.
The 3rd Unit is currently tracking the remnants of the heretic force which attacked us. However, the search goes poorly, despite our numbers.
Coerthas is vast, and Iceheart's followers know the terrain far better than we. Your knowledge of this region may serve to hasten the process.
The sooner we capture Iceheart's followers, the sooner we can press them for their leader's whereabouts.
Also─though it is admittedly a selfish request─I feel that my Braves would benefit immensely from working alongside you. While we have our share of veterans, we also have more than a few less-experienced recruits─many of whom look up to you, in case you were not aware.
Good, I knew you would understand. Yuyuhase can apprise you of the details.
When the task is complete, come and find me at the Observatorium. Captain Ilberd and I are meeting there to discuss the latest developments in his investigation.
The Temple Knights shall hold Snowcloak in our absence. Let us leave them to their work─ours is more pressing.
There you are, Forename! Commander Leveilleur instructed me to wait for you.
Your assistance is most welcome, believe me. Most of the 3rd hail from Ul'dah, and for a man accustomed to the feel of sand beneath his boots, the crunch of snow can be rather disconcerting.
But to the matter at hand─nary a moment ago, I received word that the heretics we seek have been spotted making for Daniffen Pass. My Braves are already in pursuit, and I should be grateful if you would join them.
I myself shall be taking part in the hunt. Never let it be said that I do not earn my coin.
