At last, the traveler comes...
Temulun Khatun, Cirina, I am returned.
Ah, you found each other!
Ours is the soil, Hien. The Doman's and the Eorzeans', too.
You know us?
The gods know you, child...as do the stars in the heavens, which shone bright at your coming.
The Mol hearken to the whispers of the elder gods, which guide us in our daily lives. We know them through the udgan─like my grandmother.
Khatun, I am come to beg a boon of you and yours. That I might liberate my homeland, I seek to rally the strength of the Steppe.
To that end, I wish to fight in the Naadam─as a warrior of the Mol.Will you grant me this honor?
To stand with the Mol is fruitless! Hien, do not do this! The gods may have willed that our tribe join in the Naadam, but...
There is no path to victory! We are weak and our numbers few. Even with your help, it would be impossible.
I thank you for your concern, Cirina. But it is precisely because of the seeming hopelessness of your cause that we must needs cast our lot with you.
Were we to join hands with a more favored tribe, our victory would inevitably be attributed to them. And no one would follow me to Doma.
'Twas the gods' will that we fight. Mayhap this too is their design.
Hear me, then.As khatun of the Mol, I invite you all to join with us in the Naadam.
Will you look after them?
Come with me, friends. There is much I would show you.
You, wait. I would have words.
A singular radiance. Shimmering.Like a jewel of the Dusk Mother, blinding in its brilliance.
Stars flicker and flock to you. Before such gathered light, even the secrets of the gods may be laid bare.
Some are fated to rise in grace and glory. Others to falter and fade, though not from memory. Both will be your strength and salvation come the end.
Cherish the stars and the light they bring you in the dark.For you are a traveler, are you not?
...Thank you all for coming, and for offering to fight with us in the Naadam. Though I still fear our chances grim, I am grateful for your assistance.
To be recognized as warriors of the Mol, there is a trial you must overcome.
But before we speak of such things, there is another, more pressing matter!
...Thank you all for coming, and for offering to fight with us in the Naadam. Though I still fear our chances grim, I am grateful for your assistance.
To be recognized as warriors of the Mol, there is a trial you must overcome.
But before we speak of such things, there is another, more pressing matter!
My friends. I must warn you. The path upon which you embark is fraught with peril.
You will journey unto the far reaches of the Steppe to confront a terrible foe, as did the warrior Bardam in days of yore. Three days he battled with the demon ere he returned to his people. So it is written, so must it be.
Many who follow in his footsteps perish, lacking in strength of body and mind. Therefore...
We must treat you to a great feast!
Have...have I said something strange? The hungry fox starves staring at the bull's testicles, therefore warriors should be well fed on the eve of battle!
She does have a point. You have been keeping busy in my absence. A brief repast may be in order, lest we collapse of fatigue and malnourishment in the midst of our trial.
Yes, just so! However, it will take time to prepare.
Is there anything we can do to help? It might also give us a chance to learn more about your people and their ways.
Well, if you insist, I am sure that the others would be glad of your assistance.
Hmm... Would you go and speak with Dorbei, Lyse?
As for you three─you can help me with another task.
For today's feast the gods decreed that we lure gulo gulo to slaughter with entrails. Perhaps you could be the ones to do this?
That your people look to the gods for guidance I understand, but in your daily meals! I say, your grandmother must be quite busy.
Some days more than others. But every night we come together around the cookfire.
Even babes must earn their keep on the Steppe. Give over the entrails, Cirina. We will bring you a bounty of meat!
A word of advice. Our quarry is wont to avoid the Xaela and their settlements, but is fond of flowing waters...
Hmm. A thought occurs to me. How about we make a game of it, Forename?
I have six bags of entrails with which we may lure our gulo gulo. Three for you, and three for me.
Whoever returns with the greater portion shall be declared the winner. What say you?
Then it is settled! Gosetsu will stand as witness. Let the game begin!
Then it is settled! Gosetsu will stand as witness. Let the game begin!
Then it is settled! Gosetsu will stand as witness. Let the game begin!
Then it is settled! Gosetsu will stand as witness. Let the game begin!
Then it is settled! Gosetsu will stand as witness. Let the game begin!
Oh, have you used all your bait? In that case, let us see the fruits of your labor!
Ho! It would seem that, at the very least, you are the faster hunter.
But speed is not everything. For my part, I slew six gulo gulo!
Aye, that you have, my lord. As for Forename...
The meat of eight gulo gulo did she bring! A fine day's work, and undeniably the greater portion.
Bah! A loss, is it? And how confident I was in my chances.
Nevertheless, it is a testament to your skills as a hunter and a warrior. How fortunate I am to count one so talented among my allies!
And with that, our game is concluded. Let us return to Mol Iloh forthwith─and let us have Forename present our meat to Cirina.
Mayhap you are unfamiliar with traditional Xaela cuisine? Let not its appearance deceive you─it is quite hearty and nourishing.
Were it not so, I doubt they could have nursed me back to health. Heh heh, you should have seen the state I was in...
You are returned, Forename. How was your hunt?
My word, this is impressive! Or were you so hungry that you felt the need to kill so many?
Well! I shall endeavor not to disappoint you all with my cooking!
It will be a little while before the meal is ready. If you and Lyse wish to fill the time, perhaps you could assist Dorbei?
He has many responsibilities, and would welcome your help. Nor would you regret making his acquaintance, for he is liked and respected by all.
You may find him by the other yurt, taking stock of our supplies.
