Wh-Who are you? Some kind of adventurer?
SheHe is! And my name is Saulinne. You were at Mih Khetto's Amphitheatre earlier, weren't you?
Would you like to go and join the Starlight Celebration with me? My friends will be there too, so we can all play together!
Your friends...
They're really nice! ...Do you not want to?
It's not that. It's...it's a long story.
I have time!
...We just moved here for my father's job. And I know there's no point in moping about it, but I really, really miss my three friends back in Ul'dah.
During Starlight, we'd show each other what toys we got and eat too many sweets and find all the best decorations in the city.
We'd have so much fun! And each time we'd promise to play together the next year. But now...
...You're all the way in Gridania.
I used to love the Starlight Celebration, but now all I can think about is leaving my friends behind and betraying our promise.
I'm sorry. I hope I didn't hurt your feelings by asking you to play...
It's all right. You didn't know.
But Tenny, doesn't this mean you'll never be able to enjoy the Starlight Celebration without feeling guilty? There must be something we can do...
MissMister! You're a grown-up─what do you think?
I guess. But Ul'dah is so far away. That sort of journey is a lot to ask...
Wh-What!? There's no way my father would allow─wait, did you say smuggle? ...Thanks for the offer, missmister, but I'll pass.
Mail...
That's it! I could send them presents!
That's a lovely idea! Everyone loves getting packages. And that way you'll be celebrating together─at a distance!
What should I give them? Something you can only get in Gridania...?
Ho ho ho! The answer to that is simple.
That snowy white beard─th-that's the real thing! You're the Saint of Nymeia, aren't you!?
Quite! Young Tenny, you need look no further than your own two hands─for presents crafted from the heart are presents full of heart. I shall rigorously assist you in every step of their creation as both an artisanal saint and saintly artisan!
...I don't really understand, but thank you?
I'll help too! That way your presents will be crafted in half the time.
Really? A-All right, then. Thanks.
MistressMaster Adventurer! Might we rely upon you to deliver Tenny's gifts once they are prepared?
Though we could post them by more conventional moogles, a child's hard work and dedication ought to be hand-delivered by only the most trusted individual.
And as you are both emotionally invested in Tenny's happiness and currently standing before me, I bequeath the task to you. You will do it, yes?
Excellent. Then we shall realize these creations ere the Spinner sloshes Her nog. In the meantime, I would have you apprise Amh Garanjy of our efforts.
Once you have relayed your report, return here for the requisite packages. Chop-chop!
Welcome back! Were you able to speak with the boy?
I see. To be separated from one's friends is heartbreaking, indeed. I only wish I too could help in some way...
...Oh! I know just the thing─I shall transform you into a saint!
I have a Saint of Nymeia costume that I would be most happy to gift you. Tenny's friends will be delighted for a visit from the Spinner's anointed herald!
Accept this with my warmest wishes, dear adventurer─I know you won't let us down!
Without further ado, let us transform you into the Saint of Nymeia! I have no doubt you will look every bit the part in the costume I gave you.
Incredible! I feel as though I am addressing the very captain of legend.
Now then, pray return to the Greatloam Growery and collect Tenny's presents. The happiness of precious younglings is in your hands!
Tenny awaits you at the Greatloam Growery. Please ensure his presents are delivered safely!
Welcome back, missmister! You should ask Tenny about the presents, hehe!
The presents are ready! I thought it might take longer, but the Saint of Nymeia showed us how to weave them up in no time.
We made three bracelets─one for each of my friends.
You said you'd take them to Ul'dah for me, right? My friend Momolao always hangs around outside the Quicksand, so you should start there.
If the others aren't with him, he'll tell you where to go. I don't know how to properly thank you for this, but...thank you, missmister!
If the others aren't at the Quicksand too, Momolao should know where they are. Thanks for doing this, missmister.
The Saint of Nymeia showed Tenny and me how to weave those bracelets, and making them together was a lot of fun! At least, I had fun. I hope Tenny did too.
Pray hurry to Ul'dah and make your deliveries!
