Lord Commander! An armed mob has seized control of the Vault!
And now we know. Tell us what happened, ser. Spare no detail.
We were directing refugees into the basilica, as you ordered, when all of a sudden, men brandishing weapons were all around us. It happened so fast, my lord. We had no time to respond.
They've taken the refugees hostage and barricaded themselves inside the Vault.
And they sent you to deliver their demands.
They...the True Brothers of the Faith demand that a conclave to select the next archbishop be held forthwith. Furthermore, th-they declare that you, Lord Commander, are guilty of patricide and high treason, and that you must surrender yourself at once to receive of the Fury's judgment.
Ridiculous! Do they honestly think that executing Ser Aymeric will change anything? That the truth will somehow die with him?
These fundamentalists rage against the passing of the old ways, unable to accept there can be no going back.
Given the fanciful nature of their demands, a peaceful resolution does not seem likely. If the hostages are to be rescued, it will be by force, I fear.
Agreed. Lucia, take a contingent of knights and establish a perimeter outside the entrance.
At once, Lord Commander!
Hilda, I need your people out in force throughout the Brume. When word spreads of the situation, the friends and family of the hostages may try to take matters into their own hands. I will not give these militants more targets.
I shall lead the assault on the Vault. Master Alphinaud, can I count on the support of the Scions?
Of course!
We are in your debt.
I shall join you as well, Lord Commander!
Your assistance is most welcome, Lord Artoirel. To arms then, friends! Time is against us!
Listen well. We will enter the basilica silently via this gate. According to our latest reports, there are at least six hostages being held within. The numbers and readiness of the True Brothers of the Faith are unknown.
I am told one claimed to have served under Thordan VII. Might the same be true of the rest?
Given the swiftness with which they seized control of the Vault, I think it highly likely, yes─which means that they may well possess the knowledge required to turn the building's defenses against us.
Be that as it may, we have no choice but to press on. Lord Artoirel─you are a brave man and true, and none would dare question your honor if you chose not to risk your life in this endeavor. Are you certain you wish to join us?
I am no stranger to the battlefield, Ser Aymeric! My arm will not falter; my shield will not break! Halone as my witness, we will bring these fanatics to justice!
Well said, my lord! Friends─follow me!
