My ancestors aren't actually Alexandrian, but hailed from a place called Conde Petie.
They had some unique customs there. For instance, when greeting someone, you had to say “lali-ho” in a spirited manner.
Our settlement was also famous for a gigantic tree that grew nearby. It was so enormous that, when you stood at its base, the roots covering the ground went beyond the horizon.
The terminal here at Windspath Gardens is apparently inspired by that very tree─the Iifa Tree, its name was.
It may not be real, but it's nice to have it as a memento for posterity.
The actual Iifa Tree would have been bigger than this! Much, much bigger!
While the arboretums of Sharlayan imitate natural environs, this place has the feel of an exhibit. In that sense, the word “gardens” does suit it well.
There was a beast I had never seen before.
Ah, welcome back, Forename! Krile has just delivered to me a most fascinating report.
You have some engaging impressions to share too, I hope?
Well, well, that is all very interesting indeed. But I must say, I am most fascinated by the ambulating trees.
While there are similar creatures in Urqopacha, could you tell me more about these treants as you know them?
Is that so? To maintain the ecosystem here, I imagine there are creatures that serve as their prey.
Is that so? Though it makes sense they would adapt to their environment in that fashion. I imagine they need careful to flourish, such as having specific varieties of trees around them.
Haha, is that so? To maintain an ecosystem with such formidable creatures, I imagine there must be other equally imposing species to keep them in check.
The management of ecosystems... That calls to mind Labyrinthos, does it not?
That it does.
Lest you wonder, Labyrinthos is a storage facility deep beneath Sharlayan that contains a recreation of a temperate climate zone.
Such a place exists? Amazing!
By the by, did anyone also catch sight of a large scalekin?
A large scalekin, you say? What does it look like?
Nothing I've seen before, but it has a rodent-like form and walks on all fours.
If it looks like a rodent, wouldn't that make it a beastkin?
No. It's covered in scales─ones that appear to mimic succulent plants. By that, I would definitely classify it as a scalekin.
Well, it's hard to say for certain without seeing it. Why don't you show me?
Very well. It was in a flower field earlier, and should still be near.
Let's head over there, then. When we find it, we'll see who's right!
The two of you should come along too and lend us your opinions!
Go on ahead, Forename. I'll let the others know and then join you.
This is the area. The beast didn't give the impression that it moves frequently.
Hehe, this is so exciting! Come on and help us find the creature!
Hehe, this is so exciting! Come on and help us find the creature!
That's the one there.
I see, I see... At a glance, it certainly has the look of both scalekin and beastkin.
Let's examine it more closely, shall we? Tell me your observations.
That was also the first thing I noticed. I daresay those scales are for hiding in foliage.
Indeed. Such forelimbs would be well suited to holding nuts and berries and the like.
Indeed. Such a snout would be well suited to feeding on ground-dwelling vilekin.
Having studied it, I believe that the “scales” upon its back are in fact a unique form of hide. Rather than being shed, it grows with the creature.
Hmmm, you may be right... If we consider that along with its other characteristics, such as its face and hands, it's more likely to be a beastkin like you said.
A physical examination would be needed to confirm this beyond doubt, but I'm satisfied simply to have seen it!
It seems you alone were familiar with this species. Where did you encounter it?
The faerie kingdom of the First!?
Forename has been to the very edge of existence. SheHe has seen life that others could only imagine.
Amazing... Creation truly holds no end of mysteries!
Oh, how I'd love to see them all─the life beyond the bounds of our star and plane both!
Looks like we're having fun.
Ahh, hearing about the unknown never fails to rouse me. I felt the same way when Ketenramm and Galuf treated me to tales of their travels.
You've met my grandfather too!?
Oh? Didn't I already mention it?
It was when Galuf came to Tural to investigate the golden city. I happened to have business with Gulool Ja Ja, so we met in Tuliyollal.
Little did I know that the tiny babe he was cradling would return as you.
To think that our paths had already crossed all these years ago...
Not only yours and mine either. Elene'shpya was there too, you know?
...I don't remember.
It's quite fine if you don't!
It was actually because Galuf told me about Sharlayan that I later urged Elene'shpya to take up gleaning.
My fussy bunbun was growing up dour and withdrawn, and it was when I was at my wit's end that I recalled your grandfather's story about gleaners. Seeing the world through their adventures would inspire a change for the better, I believed.
...I'm sorry I was dour and withdrawn.
If you ask me, you still have some work to do. But it's because you're that way that you're with us now, and I for one am grateful!
Well, let's keep moving, shall we?
There is a facility I've been wanting to visit─the Cleyra Museum of Nature. They're supposed to have creatures that take you on leisure flights!
There's just one problem: it seems only three people can fly at one time...
Then you and Erenville should go. The rest of us still have plenty of other things we can do here.
If there's room for one more, why don't you come with us, Forename?
Then it's settled. The museum is at the bottom of the ramp that runs west of leynode aero. Come on!
Do not mind us and just enjoy yourselves. We shall explore a little more and then make our way to the terminal.
Look after Erenville for me!
All this time, my grandfather was the common thread between us...
It does look the part, this museum. I must say I'm curious what's inside.
