Aaaaaaaaaaaaghhh!
Urk... Urggggggggghhh...
Urk... Urggggggggghhh...
D-Did you see any sign of them? I found nothing!
Perhaps the beasts have chased them farther from the village.
Oh, gods above, I beseech you! Pray deliver Mehvan and her little one to safety...
Oh, gods above, I beseech you! Pray deliver Mehvan and her little one to safety...
No more enemies to trouble us here...
...It's me. How fare you below?
...Understood. I will inform Vrtra.
Chaos and panic sweep Radz-at-Han, and many more have succumbed to the transformations.
Amidst the fray, Ahewann fell...protecting a grief-stricken father.
My friends fight alongside your Radiant Host to secure the capital.
Beasts have been sighted in Palaka's Stand as well. We have divided our forces in hopes of quelling the threat there.
Of small solace is that we now know what triggers the transformation. As my companions tell it...
So it is the very fear and despair in their hearts which inflict this abhorrent punishment upon them...
...A nightmare from which my children will never awake. O capricious and cruel fate─they are undeserving of such condemnation...
Will you wallow in sorrow or rise to the occasion?
Radz-at-Han is leaderless. Before he passed, Ahewann sought to reveal the truth to his people. Honor his wishes.
To what end? To breed a new conflict between dragon and man?
These claws could reduce thee to shreds with a touch. These jaws, crush thy bones to dust.
Only through my proxy could I walk with my children. Without him, I am a bringer of fear─no different from the beasts which beleaguer them.
Perhaps so...
Only in death were Hraesvelgr and Shiva united. Indeed, whenever man and dragon have come together, death has ever been the inevitable result.
'Twas our fear of your kind that sparked a nigh-endless war.
Fear and hate of which Nidhogg drank deep as he laid waste to my homeland.
And in turn I took my revenge on his brood. Blood for blood; pain for pain. I thought nothing of theirs─only of mine.
And yet...were the chasm between us too vast and too deep, Hraesvelgr would not have borne Ysayle to battle and our rescue.
He would have never entrusted a mortal champion with one of his eyes, and the Dragonsong War would still rage on.
And I would still wage a never-ending war of violence and vengeance, the future of our star be damned.
I cannot speak for Ahewann's greater goals. Yet I know that he served you─served your people─long and true.
In this time of unprecedented crisis, he turned to you. You could do worse than to place your trust in him.
It will not be easy, but the future of Radz-at-Han hangs in the balance.
We have company!
I am ready.
The hour is come, Vrtra. It's all or nothing!
If Mehvan fled deeper into the jungle, she and her child are in grave danger! Wh-Whatever are we to do!? Gods have mercy!
But...how can I at a time like this? They could be dead!
So...if I allow myself to be overcome by this fear, I, too, might become a beast? I am not sure I understand, but I will do my best...
Fear...consume me? What are you talking about?
Then...I, too, could become a beast? I...I understand. I think.
M-Me? A beast? What are you talking about!?
Gods... So that is what causes it? Then I have no choice...l must keep my fear in check.
I've seen to the wounded. How did the two of you fare? Did you find your friends?
...I see. In that case, let us help you find the mother and child.
Before we leave, we must ensure the village will be safe in our absence.
Alisaie and I will patrol the area and search for more beasts.
Would you and Matsya speak with Elder Yeruvvet? Pray explain to him the situation, and join us as soon as you are able.
We will save Mehvan and her child. We can do that much for Qerasaf...
<sniff> It will not be easy... But I will tell the elder about Qerasaf...
I am heartened to see you both safe, but what of the family?
We found Qerasaf, b-but...he...
Say no more. I understand. We have lost another of our dear friends...
Qerasaf may be gone, but there is still hope for Mehvan and their child. Please find them, I beg of you!
And if, in your search, you come across anyone else who escaped the slaughter, pray tell them what has happened.
I will do my best to keep the villagers safe...and their spirits high.
Come, let us rejoin your friends at once!
Qerasaf and Mehvan married only three summers ago. The day their daughter was born...I had never seen them so happy. They did not deserve this─none of these people did.
Where might Mehvan have run off to? Think, Matsya, think!
We encountered no beasts during our patrol, thankfully.
I'm pleased to report that the vicinity appears to be beast-free─no doubt thanks to your earlier efforts.
And with that, let us resume our search for your friend and her child. Where should we begin, Matsya?
If we follow Ksiroda south, we will arrive at Purusa, a temple. It is a sacred place where people go to commune with the divinities.
It's possible that Mehvan sought shelter there, and perhaps other villagers as well...
Then it's settled. Matsya, stay close to me, all right?
You two, take the lead. Keep an eye out for beasts and anyone in need of help.
Very well. We make for Purusa, as quickly as we are able. With me!
