...Cassard? It feels like an age since I last saw you!
Well, if it isn't the lovely Tesleen! It has been a while, but your timing couldn't be better.
This lady was on her way to meet with Alisaie. I'm supposed to be taking her to your corner of the desert, but a misplaced order has commandeered my attention...
...Wait, I know who you are.
Alisaie has told me so much about you! You're Forename, aren't you!?
I knew it! How wonderful to meet you in the flesh after hearing all those stories!
I'm Tesleen. I work as a carer at the Inn, and I've gotten to know Alisaie quite well since she took up guard duties there.
Do you want me to take over as Forename's guide, Cassard? My shopping's all done and packed for the road, so it would be no trouble...
That would be a great help, thank you!
Well, it looks like you'll be able to head straight out after all. My caravan and I will be in the area for a while yet─seek me out when you've had your fill of Amh Araeng, and I'll send you back to the Crystarium.
Alisaie has been desperate to see you, Forename, so let's get you to her sooner rather than later!
The Inn isn't too hard to find, really─you can actually see the top of the rock spires from here.
We just need to swing around the ridge, then head south. Come on, I'll get my supplies together and meet you outside!
All set? Oh, I should probably mention the wildlife...
While most of them will leave you be if you keep your distance, the local coyotes have learned to prey on folk heading home from the markets.
I can usually swing a sword well enough to fend them off, but I may have loaded myself down with too many bargains today...
Do you think you can handle any beasts that try to make a meal of us?
I thought you might. Alisaie was always saying how much y─ Um, I mean, let's get going, shall we?
Sorry, there wasn't much time to shout a warning. Were you bitten? Those things can be nasty.
And yet hardly a match for you, it seems! I'd always thought Alisaie was strong, but in her mind, she was never...hmmm. Now it makes sense.
Ahem, well we should push on! It might be best if you scout ahead and clear out any coyotes that have our scent.
I'll wait here so you can fight without any distractions!
Oh, thank goodness you're back. I could hear the howling and snarling from here... Frightful creatures.
Let's hope the rest have seen your handiwork, and know to avoid us now. I need to get these supplies back to the Inn!
This is it! Thanks to you, I didn't have to drop my shopping even once! Come to think of it, I'm glad I didn't make the trip alone...
It seems you ended up escorting me! I'll have to repay the favor somehow, but first, let's head inside, shall we?
Welcome to the Inn at Journey's Head. You might be our first visitor from the Crystarium since Alisaie arrived.
It's not much, but it's home for the afflicted and a handful of carers.
You...don't know?
Contagious...? Well, no, not as far as we know.
I don't think I've met anyone besides Alisaie who was so unfamiliar with our situation here. Most folk have grown up knowing someone who knew someone...
Hm. I might leave out something obvious, so it may be best to have Alisaie give you the full explanation.
Now, where is she...?
...Hm. I think she might be out on patrol.
You could wait, I suppose─but why not go and surprise her!? She usually takes a look at things from the watchtower first, so you might be able to catch her there.
It's not far─head out the south side and you'll soon see it. I'll stay behind, in case she comes back while you're gone.
It's not far─head out the south side and you'll soon see it. I'll stay behind, in case she comes back while you're gone.
It's not far─head out the south side and you'll soon see it. I'll stay behind, in case she comes back while you're gone.
It's not far─head out the south side and you'll soon see it. I'll stay behind, in case she comes back while you're gone.
It's not far─head out the south side and you'll soon see it. I'll stay behind, in case she comes back while you're gone.
It's not far─head out the south side and you'll soon see it. I'll stay behind, in case she comes back while you're gone.
Get back here!
Is that!? It can't be...
Just a lesser sin eater. Nothing to write home about.
I had it under control! ...Right up until the moment I didn't. I'll do better next time.
I knew you'd turn up sooner or later, but I had been hoping for sooner.
How are you?
We've fought them to a standstill, then...
The Exarch did say that the Empire seemed to have drawn back when he last looked in on the Source. But without knowing for sure how fast time was passing there, I couldn't help worrying that a lot might have happened since then.
I'm heartily relieved to hear that it hasn't─just as Alphinaud must have been. As you can imagine, both he and Urianger were desperate to hear the news from home when I arrived.
I haven't actually seen Thancred and Y'shtola yet, but they will have heard all the latest developments from the Exarch by now─or should have, at least.
When I think of how frantic Tataru and the others must be, I want nothing more than to rush back and reassure them...
But we still haven't found a way to reverse the summoning. And even if we had, we couldn't just ignore Urianger's vision.
He may use ten words where one would suffice─and they may often obscure as much as they reveal...
But on this matter, he was as clear as day. I do not doubt for one moment that he saw what he claims.
Nor how difficult it must have been to speak about them. The Eighth Umbral Calamity and your death aren't exactly topics for idle conversation.
As much as I might want to go home, I don't want to go home to that. We can't allow the Rejoining to happen, which means we have to save the First from the sin eaters.
That great wall of white is a remnant of the Flood.
A hundred years ago, the balance in the First tipped decisively in favor of Light. From that moment, it rose and swelled with each passing day─and then, without warning, it burst forth like water from a broken dam.
...A colossal wave of pure Light, drowning everything in its wake. Only Norvrandt was spared.
For the most part, living things are composed of aether of various different aspects.
But when exposed to such a flood, their aetheric harmony is shattered, and their natural form breaks down.
Then they either perish...or are warped into mindless abominations.
Yes, that's how the sin eaters came to be. They were once living creatures─or people─that were caught in the path of the Flood.
Once the change is wrought, there is no going back. In that instant, they are gripped by an insatiable appetite for aether, and will happily gorge themselves on any living thing within reach.
But even that is not the worst of it. The stronger sin eaters can plant Light in us like seeds in soil, corrupting our aether, and triggering the birth of new monstrosities.
They are creatures of base instinct that exist only to feed and to multiply. They feel no pity, know no remorse, and are utterly deaf to reason. Which is why they must be destroyed. Every last one of them.
The infirmary is full of the sin eaters' victims, left here to spend their final hours waiting for the change to overtake them...
It's just a matter of time─more for some, less for others. Those patients will all become monsters in the end.
And to add insult to injury, the afflicted are feared. Shunned. Cast out of society, and exiled here to the edge of the world...
The only good thing I have to say about this hellish place is that it has served me well as a training ground. Tesleen and the others have also been kind enough to share their knowledge of the sin eaters.
Which is knowledge I can now share with you...while you help me finish my patrol, of course.
Here's what we'll do: I'll take the east side of the Inn, and you clear the west. That way you can have an undiluted experience with the resident terrors.
These marks on your map are where the usual trouble spots are.
You can assume that any beast with a white hide or carapace is a sin eater, but you'll know for sure soon enough when they come slavering after your aether. Remember: it's kill or be killed with these monsters.
Once you've slain whatever's prowling around out there, we can rendezvous back at the north entrance. Good hunting.
How did you fare?
Ah, I thought there might be one or two lurking on the fringes. Nothing out of the ordinary for this area...
I expect you noticed it yourself, but individually, these lesser sin eaters are no more deadly than any natural predator you might encounter in the desert.
It's when they appear in numbers that they pose a threat. Much like the voidsent, they have an unfortunate tendency to flock to the strongest of their kind.
Thus when a powerful sin eater goes on the hunt, it might be attended by a veritable swarm of weaker kin. Imagine an army of such creatures descending on a village or hamlet...
That's the basic idea behind my patrols: to cull their ranks often enough that their numbers won't be overwhelming when the big ones come out to play. And you've certainly helped on that front.
Let's report our victories to Tesleen, shall we?
Alisaie tells me you helped out on her patrol. You have our thanks...and my apologies for leading you from one battle to another ever since the moment we met!
In any case, I'm glad to see the two of you found each other. You have no idea how badly Alisaie has missed your company! Everything is always, “If Forename were here, she would─”
That's an exaggeration! And I don't sound like that, either! I was simply trying to view matters from another perspective, and I respect Forename's methods!
Ahahaha! Honestly, after seeing her in action, I can understand why.
The way she leaps into the fray without hesitation, it really is something to behold. I might be a little smitten myself!
<gasp>
Heh heh! I'm only teasing! Though I've no doubt she deserves all the admiration she gets. Just as you do.
I'd love to lay out a welcome meal, but the duties I put off when I went to the market are still waiting for me...
Argh! There are a hundred and one things that need doing! I'm sorry, but would you mind waiting here with Alisaie?
What, and twiddle our thumbs while you work yourself to death? Surely there's something we can help you with?
...I could do with a hand, it's true. Thank you. You can start by helping me sort out the larder, Alisaie.
While we do that, could you tend to a few patients, perhaps? There are three in particular I meant to visit─it's just a matter of saying a few words to them, and seeing that their skin isn't caked in sand.
Their names are Pawnil, Todden, and Halric. They may not give much in the way of a response, but I promise they'll be pleased to meet someone new!
