Customer, be welcome! Not customer? Not come with custom? Bring something for Teteroon?
Teteroon forget this! Forget at Druthers. Teteroon swore would never forget earring...but never forget forgot. Teteroon thank! Teteroon thank!
Good Buscaroon doing good? Good Buscaroon good to Teteroon. Teteroon miss good Buscaroon... <sigh>
Good Buscaroon help Teteroon. Teteroon dead without good Buscaroon. Must give thankies. Many, many thankies. Teteroon make Qiqirn firewater for Buscaroon! Buscaroon love firewater!
You help Teteroon make firewater? Need thingies to make. Need many, many thingies.
Need coeurl pup whiskers. Need three good coeurl pup whiskers.
Teteroon make firewater for Buscaroon. You bring thingies Teteroon need?
You brought all thingies! Teteroon make firewater now. Make good firewater for good Buscaroon.
Teteroon start making firewater now. Good firewater take time. More time, more good. You come back later.
Teteroon make firewater! Good, good firewater! You take to Buscaroon. Good firewater for good Buscaroon.
Tell Buscaroon no drink now. Tell put away one year. One year make best flavor.
<sigh> Teteroon hopes Buscaroon happy. Teteroon gives Buscaroon thankies. Many, many thankies. You tell Buscaroon.
Teteroon make big shop someday. Biggest shop in Eorzea. Make many, many sparklies. All thanks to good Buscaroon.
Ah, you've returned. Thank you for seeing Teteroon's belongings to him. ...What's this? For me?
Qiqirn firewater! So he remembers my fondness for the drink, does he? Why that old... He... I... Aw, bloody hells! Who's cutting onions back there!?
He says to shelve it for a year, does he? Aye, that sounds about right. I hate to have to wait, but I reckon it'll be worth it. This stuff has an aroma and body unlike any other drink I know.
It's going to be a looong year. What say you come back then, friend? We'll see if we can't make it through this bottle together.
There was word while you were away. Sylphs were seen in the wood, but near no lands of their own. No, this was a place near to here─a place we've never known a sylph to come.
Something must have given them cause to venture this far. More than like, the missing sylph elder's among them. Here, I've marked the tract where they were sighted on your map. Go see if there's anything to be seen.
So, was there aught to be found in the wood? What did you come to─ ...Garleans!? In this part of the Twelveswood!?
Hmmm... First sylphs and now Garleans, and all in the same place. It cannot be mere coincidence. Might the Garleans be following the sylphs? Tracking them or giving chase, mayhap?
But no, not this far into the forest. The Wailers' spires are everywhere. Imperials could never have stolen past them all. How in the bloody hells could they─ Unless...
Unless someone guided them through. Someone who knew where the spires stand, and when the Wailers watch. A Gridanian traitor.
I'm glad you've come, friend. There's something I want to talk to you about. You know I said I thought we might have a traitor in our midst─someone as was aiding the Garleans? Well, I'm thinking I may have identified our suspect.
There's a regular of mine who used to dine on thin soup, and sip his pint on account of not being able to afford another. But of late, he's taken to ordering my best wines and the finest cuts of meat I can lay my hands on.
Were he a merchant, I'd prob'ly think nothing of it, but this lad's a Wood Wailer.
...And Wood Wailers don't earn that kind of coin. By chance, I was musing on where the money was coming from when you first told me about the Garleans in the forest, and I couldn't help putting two and two together.
Suffice it to say, if a Wailer's working for the Empire, none of us is safe.
The lad I'm talking about goes by the name of Laurentius. Last I heard, he was in the South Shroud. Find him, Forename, and if he is up to no good, put an end to it─and him, if it comes to that.
