What?
Pathetic.
Vermin such as you are not worthy of the Oracle.
Break!
Fool! You would see your city razed?
I would sooner see it razed than conquered. Suffice it to say, we are ready to receive you.
What now, Exarch? Will you face me yourself?
I think not, General. I've quite exhausted my tricks.
If you mean to give chase, I will not stand in your way.
But you would do well to tread warily. For your quarry goes to a place where even Eulmore dare not bare its steel...
Il Mheg, the faerie kingdom.
To think that mountain of indolence still had the energy to unleash his hounds...
Even the most pointless of conflicts may alter a world's course... And now the plan has gone awry.
But how...? How did the so-called Crystal Exarch bring the hero of the Source to the First?
As if I didn't have enough on my hands already...
Then again...with a soul such as that...
Mayhap there is another way. One which does not require bloodshed...
Not so long ago, here in the shadow of the northern ranges, lay the great Kingdom of Voeburt.
A nation with a proud history...that the sin eaters cut short. Just like all the rest.
Since that time, these lands have become a haven for fae folk.
Dreamers frolicking amidst the ruins of a forgotten realm.
We should be safe enough here.
It's good to see you again, my friends. I don't know about you, but it feels like years since last we met. Five of them, in my case.
Why, it only feels like one to me. But long enough to warrant a more convivial reunion, either way.
What brought you to Laxan Loft?
The girl, Minfilia. She and I were traveling together, hunting sin eaters.
But as we were nearing Lakeland, she abruptly ran off on her own.
I found her too late to stop the Eulmorans from taking her prisoner. And as I was considering rescue options, I observed that the Crystarium was on the move.
So I consulted the Exarch, who apprised me of the details of the operation─and issued me certain instructions.
Should the situation take a turn for the worse, I was to see you all safely to Il Mheg. And here we are.
Urianger has called this place home for a while now.
Yet we have never called upon him, I am ashamed to say. 'Twas only at the Crystarium that we met.
Hardly surprising. This is not the sort of place one visits on a whim.
Happily, having trespassed on Urianger's hospitality for a spell, Minfilia and I have an idea of how things work around here.
Sooner or later, the Eulmorans will come after us. But before they do, the Exarch bids us accomplish two things.
First, rendezvous with Urianger.
And second, eliminate the Lightwarden of this land.
So...Minfilia.
What made you leave Thancred behind─if you don't mind me asking?
You. The hero from another world.
I was asleep when I felt it. A presence. Someone I was meant to meet. They were close, and...and I knew I had to go to them.
But with all the commotion in Lakeland, I was afraid that Thancred wouldn't...let me...
And would I have been wrong? Had I arrived a moment later, you would be back in your cell in Eulmore.
And now we have Ran'jit snapping at our heels! You really have outdone yourself this time.
I'm sorry. Thank you for saving me.
