As you command, O Lilira.
Forgive my selfish desire to assure your welfare.
I don't recall requesting an escort! Simply pretend we never met and continue on your way.
We both know I can do no such thing. It isn't safe for you here alone.
It isn't safe for anyone─not with this aetheric disturbance... It's as though the dead are watching us...
And I'd prefer not to join them, if it's all the same to you.
Ah, you must be the one that Papashan mentioned. Congratulations on finding our elusive young charge.
You'll have to forgive Her Impetuousness. What she lacks in discipline, she makes up for in stubbornness.
You should return with us. The stationmaster will be eager to thank Lady Lilira's protector in person.
Alas, the stationmaster will have to wait.
Dear Lilira, for my sake, please stay out of harm's way.
As for you, dear friend─for Lilira's sake─please stay in harm's way!
Come, let's attend to our uninvited guest!
Lovely, it brought friends!
Leave the big one to me! You handle the rest!
Stay close if you want me to heal you!
More of them!? Really now, there are limits to our hospitality!
Just a little more...
Hear... Feel... Think...
Crystal bearer...
I am Hydaelyn. All made one.
A Light there once was that shone throughout this realm...yet it hath since grown dim.
And as it hath faltered, so hath Darkness risen up in its stead, presaging an end to Life.
For the sake of all, I beseech thee: deliver us from this fate!
The power to banish the Darkness dwelleth in the Crystals of Light. Journey forth and lay claim to them.
By thy deeds shall the Crystals reveal themselves to thee.
Only believe, for the Light liveth in thy heart.
Go now, my child, and shine thy Light on all creation.
Ah, coming around now.
Would you mind telling me what that was?
If I only knew. A denizen of the void, at any rate.
The voidsent? Here? But how?
The question isn't “how,” but “who”─we're not dealing with bookless bandits.
Don't suppose the answer came to you in a dream?
No sooner did you fell the beast than you fell asleep. Too much aether, no doubt.
Interesting... I hadn't considered the Crystal.
But of course... This changes everything.
Hm? Oh, just thinking aloud. At any rate, we haven't a moment to spare. I must return and report this at once.
I leave Lady Lilira in your capable hands!
How dare you pass me about like a swaddled babe!
I shall return and tell them myself!
As you wish, Your Impetuousness.
I suspect we shall meet again before long.
Until then, do try and stay awake!
Thank the gods you've returned! You had us all so worried!
You do realize what would happen if a person of your noble stature were to be injured─or worse?
Why, Her Grace the sultana would be beside herself with grief─and so would her subjects! I daresay they'd be weeping in the streets!
But I have already given you cause to weep, Papashan...you and the people of Ul'dah...
Please, Your─ You're not to say such things! We will find it, I swear to you!
It is not my place to make demands, m-my lady, but I beg you, please stay out of harm's way.
...I apologize for causing you undue worry, Papashan. I shall refrain from traveling unescorted in future.
I cannot thank you enough, Forename!
I understand you fought bravely to protect Lady Lilira from voidsent fiends.
For your gallant service, you deserve all the riches in the royal vaults. Alas, a small token of my gratitude is the best I can offer.
...Hm? A sarcastic man with a strange contraption strapped to his shoulder?
I see you met Thancred. He's a scholar who spends his days investigating oddities in the aether. Rather too fond of the sound of his own voice for my liking, but perfectly harmless.
As for you, Forename─you're just the sort of adventurer we need around here.
I pray you show the same kindness to the people of Thanalan as you did to us today.
