That all you bastards've got!? Come on, then! Give us another!
Gods, they just keep coming!But we cannot...we will not yield!
You hear me, old girl!? Don't you dare lose!
Bwahahaha! Brilliant, brilliant! You are indeed the Warrior of Light...
...But I am the Bull of Ala Mhigo!
Strength, Forename, strength! Now is your chance!
Strike him down! For the glory of Ishgard!
Aye, all right... Take your victory. You've earned it.
Did...did she win? Then we...we...
Victory is ours! Ishgard! Ishgard!
Well fought! Well fought, my friend! You truly are the warrior of warriors! Thank the Fury you were on our side!
Hah hah...my lungs are burning, and I can barely stand!
I didn't think I could do it...but then I did! We did! We faced the Alliance's best, and together, with one heart, with one purpose, we prevailed!
After a thousand years of hardship, of strife and bloodshed, we are strong enough to rise to any challenge─be it on the battlefield or beyond.
The future holds so much promise. So much joy. We need only show them the way.
A truly magnificent display, ser knight. While doubtless less than pleased, I am quite sure the Grand Companies are honored to have been bested by such valiant warriors.
The honor was ours, Your Grace.
I am pleased to see that Ishgard's proud martial tradition is being upheld.
When the time comes, I trust you will fight alongside your brothers and sisters in the Eorzean Alliance with the same fervor you displayed in opposing them.
I note that our friend elected to take the field in Ishgardian colors.
At my behest, Your Grace. If we have given offense, the blame lies with me.
Fear not, ser knight. It was a surprise, nothing more. And any hint of ill-feeling was thoroughly dispelled by the spectacle of our mutual friend's duel with General Raubahn.
On the subject of surprises, I could not help but marvel at the passion and unity of purpose displayed by your countrymen...given the troubling reports we have received of late.
I shall take that as a compliment, Your Grace. The events to which you allude are the price of change. The end of the Dragonsong War marks the beginning of a new era for our nation─and for the people, high- and lowborn alike, who will lead her into the future.
Ah, yes... The people.
Change is indeed a perilous thing, for we who seek it and they who fear it. I shall pray for Ishgard─and for you.
Well, that made for a refreshing change. Congratulations on your victory, by the way.
The Ishgardians certainly seem happy with themselves. I, for my part, am merely glad you did not strain anything in the process of single-handedly winning the battle for them.
'Tis but a scratch, I assure you. And I will not suffer you to worry over me─not when we have a dozen far more important concerns.
...Make that two dozen. Still, as Y'shtola never tires of telling me, we can but face them head-on, one at a time. One day at a time...as Minfilia would have done.
Thal's balls... I had forgotten what it was like to feel so alive!
Not since leaving the bloodsands have I had the privilege. Not since the Bull of Ala Mhigo hung up his swords.
Back then, the outcome might have been different. But I do not begrudge you your victory. I know how far you have come, how much you have endured. Our fight only confirmed it.
We shall have to do this again one day, when time allows. I shall look forward to it. Now go. Go to the Ishgardians and celebrate your victory. You have earned it.
Come, Pipin. Her Grace is expecting us.
Lead on, Father!
Said your good-byes?
In all the years I have known Raubahn, I cannot recall ever seeing him look so happy in defeat.
Well! Everything seems to be falling into place, does it not? The Ishgardians have claimed their symbolic victory, and the Eorzean Alliance has been strengthened in the process. Be proud, Forename. You made this happen.
We have done it─nay, you have done it. You have brought us the victory we so desperately needed.
There is naught left but to return to the capital. Come─let us see what reception awaits us.
My lord!
Honoroit, my boy! Shouldn't you be in bed?
Thank you for your concern, my lord, but I have largely recovered from my ordeal, and I have naught but several scars to show for it. Which, I have been told, some women may find...appealing.
I see! And to think I was worried sick over you!
I'm not sure I understand, my lord.
Well, let's put that theory to the proof, shall we?
M-my lord?
'Twould seem that a great many things have occurred in my absence. I thought I might begin to make amends by welcoming you in person.
The messengers spared not their chocobos to bring us word of your victory in the grand melee. I cannot well describe our elation when we heard the news.
It called to mind the day we rejoined the Eorzean Alliance, when I glimpsed hope rekindled in the eyes of the people.
The Fury Herself ushers us into a new era. Ser Aymeric, the time is now!
Aye, that it is. Reconvene the conference and summon Vidofnir to Falcon's Nest.
We will make peace with Hraesvelgr's brood and hasten this bloody war to its end.
Yes, Lord Commander!
I will send word to Artoirel and bid him resume preparations.
Emmanellain─you will place yourself at your brother's disposal. He will be glad of your assistance.
No stopping it now, is there? We should inform Y'shtola and the others.
My dear friend...I doubt I will ever be able to thank you enough. But when the conference is successfully concluded, I damn well mean to try.
They say you dueled General Raubahn within a ring of flames. I did not think the man so ostentatious. Would that I could have seen it...
After we parted ways in Matoya's Cave, I returned here to speak with Tataru. We agreed to tell the others only that our search for Minfilia had reached an impasse.
I subsequently learned that you had left for Falcon's Nest, but I thought it best to keep to myself for a time. I am wont to rely on you overmuch when we are together, and I needed to think. To reflect.
I still do, I suspect, but matters here seemed to be coming to a head. In short, there are some things I feel I must say─though nothing so urgent that it cannot wait until after the conference.
So let us make for Falcon's Nest, and see if Lord Artoirel has need of our assistance.
Well met, Mistress Surname, and thank you for looking after my brother.
They say he fought bravely─that he did not dishonor his house. But you, my lady─to you we owe everything.
As you can see, we have made every effort to strike while the iron is hot. We made our intentions known, and that all would be welcome to attend. And so they came. By the grace of the Fury, they came.
The ceremony will not be a lengthy affair, but there is still much to be done! I would speak with you more, but I must see to my duties. As for you and Master Alphinaud─you will do naught but enjoy yourselves, is that clear? If any dare beg your assistance again, I will have words.
Well, there you have it. We have been forbidden from meddling. Shall we wait, or have you other matters to attend to before the ceremony begins?
Excellent. I only hope Thancred and the others will not be late. Epochal events do not come around very often.
By all means, then. I will remain here.
The appointed hour approaches.
Aye.
She begged leave to watch the proceedings. I saw no reason not to grant it.
Should I choose to deviate from my prepared remarks, I ask that you trust in my judgment.
Have I ever done otherwise?
Ah, how long it hath been since our peoples met thus, children of Thordan. Even by our reckoning.
Vidofnir, daughter of Hraesvelgr, we give thanks for your visit and bid you welcome to Falcon's Nest.
Our sire bade us hearken unto the whispers of our hearts. They spoke to us of a paradise lost─of bonds of brotherhood which they yearn to see restored.
Ours too yearn for such a restoration. And they have guided us here this day, that they might yearn no longer.
Brothers and sisters, ye who stand as witness, hearken to me!
Since the days of eld, when the bonds betwixt man and dragon were sundered by our hand, our peoples have known only war.
Bloodshed without end, losses beyond counting─and still we fought. And still we fought.
Some wounds do not heal. The dead cannot be returned to us.
But we the living can yet choose another course. Here and now, we can lay down this burden─this hatred, this vengeance.
Our forebears fought not so that we could die, but that we might live! So let us honor their sacrifice and spare our children this death sentence. Let us gift them a new legacy. Life!
Betwixt our peoples yawneth a divide deeper than the deepest abyss; wider than the widest sea.
Generations will live and die ere this divide is bridged. Knowing this, doth thy heart yet yearn for peace, son of Thordan?
Look now on the legacy we would leave to our children. A dream of peace inscribed in stone for generations to come.
Father and his beloved. As they were so long ago. Happy and at peace.
The dream they shared shall be ours once more.
Never!
Your bow!
Child of Dravania! Art thou grown so forgetful that thou wouldst forsake kith and kin, and consort with the spawn of Thordan? That thou wouldst dare contemplate peace!
Hearken unto me, all of you! The final chorus is nigh, and all will be held to account! All will bathe in the flames of retribution!
Till the coming of that day, look you on your sins and despair! For none shall 'scape my wrath! None shall 'scape my revenge!
Seven hells!
Damn you, Nidhogg...
