We must hold the enemy here! All units─attack!
The central crossing is overrun! Requesting immediate reinforcements!
Gah, damn these savages! Deploy the reserve colossi!
How can this be...? R-Reinforcements! We need more reinforcements!
Forename, how are you faring? ...Reached a dead end, you say? I believe I know where you are.
There's a disposal chute nearby. Find it and jump in, and you'll emerge in a different sector.
Forename, assault crafts are near! Watch out for incoming fire!
Stand clear of its arms.
I've located the controls for the security system. A moment while I disable the barriers.
I'm also pleased to say I've found a suit of armor. Press on─I'll meet you just ahead.
Another bulkhead, eh? Fortunately I'm equipped for the task. Stand back!
Come on, the field generator should be just up ahead!
There it is! Keep the enemy occupied while I take it out of commission!
Damn, reinforcements! Take care of them, would you?
Diverting all power to cannons!
My lord was quite taken with you and the power you possess─the “Echo.” Naturally, I could not help but wonder whom this princess among women might be...
Only to discover that you are but another adventurer. No better than the multitude.
Yet in spite of this, the masses hold you their champion, and shower honors upon your head. It defies all reason.
How is it that you could be such a thorn in our side? Wherever you appear, you leave havoc in your wake. You even slew Rhitahtyn, one of our very finest.
Well...I will not speculate. Truth be told, I couldn't care less how you have done these things. What matters to me is the fact that you have done them.
If you are allowed to continue, you will eventually deprive me of all that I have toiled for─all that is mine by right!
My minions, my comrades...even my lord Gaius!
Well, you cannot have him!
His dreams and ambitions, his body and soul─they are mine, do you hear me!? All mine!
I lost everything once before! I will not suffer it to happen again!
I will kill you, adventurer! Only your death can bring me peace!
You will not take any more from me!
