Insatiable flame, consume our foe!
Thunderous tempest, smite our foe!
Glacial ice, entomb our foe!
From what I can tell, the summonings appear to be over.
No belief is sacred to these Telophoroi...
They were nimble fighters, I'll give them that.
That seems to have been the limit of the tower's defenses.
Is everyone all right!?
We fortified the captives with what magicks we could. Have the defenses been disabled? All appears quiet for the moment...
The lower floors were disturbing enough, but this place feels...wrong. The aether is heavy and thick. Like wading through a quagmire...
I believe we stand in the tower's beating heart. What sayest thou, Y'shtola...?
I see it. Aether siphoned from the land runs up through the spire, flowing to a single point...
This is the core we seek.
Yet something is...off. As large as this structure is, it siphons far more aether than is required to sustain it.
'Tis as if the core is feeding on the energy. Consuming it. I need to take a closer look...
...Curious. There is something there, embedded inside the core.
A man's limb...
This is what we came to destroy?
Yes. If you would be so kind?
And that should be the end of it!
Ugh, what now!?
My theory that the tower might come crashing down following the core's destruction doth appear to be correct.
Bully for you! And how are we supposed to survive the fall!?
What of the prisoners below...!
The floor beneath our very feet dissolves. Brace yourselves!
I pray I'm not too late!
What happened? Where are we?
By my reckoning, we're still on the island where the tower stood but...'tis as if it never existed.
Hardly a scratch. But how...?
G'raha wove a levitation spell at the last moment. Large enough to catch everyone, it would seem.
That explains the lack of obvious injuries.
The expenditure of so much aether has taken its toll. He will need plenty of rest, but should otherwise be none the worse for wear.
Then the immediate problem is what to do with our new friends here.
They'll be much changed for their time in the tower. Even if their bodies are intact, I doubt we could say the same for their minds.
Angelo and I will take care of that.
I have every faith in you, Alisaie, but there are just too many for you to treat alone.
We'll send at once to Eorzea for more porxies, and call on the local mages to lend a hand.
Hail, Scions!
We were watching the tower, when it simply...disappeared. What happened here?
The threat is banished, and thy people delivered. They are, however, in need of treatment, and we of a secure locale and helping hands to assist us in its provision.
You shall have all this and more. Come, let us convey these unfortunate souls to the city.
Whew... Carrying all those Matanga may have been the true struggle...
The liberated prisoners are being transported to Radz-at-Han for treatment.
Alisaie and Y'shtola will oversee the administration of the tempering treatment, with support from those who know a healing spell or two.
We'll go and join them in the city once you've had a moment to catch your breath.
Had enough rest, have you? You never were one for being idle. Right─Varshahn bade us come to Meghaduta at our earliest convenience.
The others will join us there once they have finished tending to the prisoners.
Ah, wait. On second thought, you and Estinien should go on ahead. I need to make a quick detour by the Great Work.
We left G'raha in the alchemists' care, you see. Best to fetch him before he's crammed into a specimen jar.
Just you and me, then. The guardsman at the gate should wave us through.
When we delivered G'raha to the alchemists, they were not a little excited.
Perhaps it was Nidhana's rescue that brought them joy, but given their fascination with Estinien, I'm not quite sure...
With the tower gone, I expect that the state of alert will be lifted.
