Welcome to the final days of Amaurot...
So much destruction...
It's just too terrible...
Steady, Ryne!Remember: this is only a recreation!
The fabric of our star began to fray...
...and the unchecked energies of creation begat malformed beasts.
Just as prayer gives rise to primals, our dread made manifest our deepest fears.
A city burneth 'neath fiery skies, and calamitous beasts hold sway...
I know the beasts are eye-catching, but keep watch for those meteors!
The first beast was striking in its unsightliness...
As if to scour away all life, it called down a cataclysmic deluge.
As if to scour away all life, it called down a cataclysmic deluge.
Yet even its defeat did not halt the march of oblivion...
Everyone all right?
There goes a tower! We'll run out of walkway at this rate...
Seven hells! These beasts lurk behind every stone!
The land buckled; the cities burned; the waters ran red with blood...
A man's face on a bird's body...How unsettling.
The form fear taketh is unlike to be pleasing.
The beast bellows, and gives birth to terror.A terror which, in turn, gives birth to new beasts...
Its gaze turns skyward, and fiery rain falls from the heavens...
Once the fear has taken root, it cannot be expunged...
As if feeding upon the horror, the beast bloats...then shivers...then ruptures...
Yet this was far from the worst of it. Come, and I will show you...
<pant> Is it...<pant>...over...?
The beasts are links in a chain of fear...yet we seem to have broken it.
This time, mayhap. I worry we might not outlast the next.
Just a little further...
Have we ascended into the heavens themselves!?
We perceive the scene from the heavens, as the Ascians did.
...and you will see the end of a world.
The star was fading. We saw we had to weave its laws anew...
But between us and our goal loomed a final misbegotten fiend...
I don't care how monstrous it is! We end this now!
Ryne! How are you holding up?
I can do this! We can do this! Together!
From the depths of despair, the last harbinger arose...
Its voice was fulgent destruction, and none could stand in its path.
And as it edged inexorably closer, we knew...
Without decisive sacrifice, our star would surely perish.
We shall not falter!
Not for despair, nor fate itself.
Where is Emet-Selch?
Be on your guard. This is wholly his realm.
This is it—the first and final end.
The unwinding of life itself...
Well, well, you prevailed...
Nevertheless!
Your performance was underwhelming, and I remain unconvinced of your worthiness.
Oh, you tower over your misbegotten ilk, no doubt. But should I bring my full strength to bear, well...you would be as leaves in the wind.
The gulf between us is a reflection of the disparity between the world as it was...and what it has become.
Our worlds may not live up to your lofty standards...
But they are our worlds! Our homes! Full of life and love and hope!
And we won't stand by and let you destroy them!
Alisaie!
You are a mistake.
For we who have known perfection, the shattered Source and these shards are ghastly mockeries of the true world.
The ephemeral lives you exalt are pale imitations, utterly devoid of meaning.
Belittle us all you like, but we will rise again and again, and give the lie to your insults through word and deed.
We define our worth, not the circumstances of our creation!
Hmph, more prattle.
Fool. Who are you? No one. Nothing.
Once I have reclaimed my heritage, my first act will be to expunge your stain from history's weave.
My world will have no need for heroes.
Still fighting the good fight...
It is true that all we hold dear is fated to fade away.
But that is no reason for us to forsake it!
To take what steps we may, and thus mark the road for those who would follow.
To strive for the best of all futures... Be this not also thy purpose!?
Do not presume to speak of my future!
And you! Why waste your final moments in futile defiance?
Weary wanderer─you've no fight left to fight! No life left to live!
Hah hah hah hah hah! You see! The Light will not be denied!
Surrender to your fate, and let the transformation take you!
Rise up in madness and fury! Devour the vermin infesting the land which is rightfully ours!
Now, Ryne! Now!
Fight it... You have to hold on!
If you had the strength to take another step, could you do it?
Could you save our worlds?
Hah.
Take it. We fight as one!
