Oh, you've cleared the root of blue trumpets? Wonderful! To be quite honest, I have this teeny-tiny problem with heights. <sigh> No, this is not my ideal posting, but we all do what we must.
Keeping the root passable is an important job, you see. It's one of the few ways folk can traverse the Central Shroud since the Calamity all but split the area in twain.
It is not, perhaps, the easiest pathway to walk, but there are those who believe the will of the Matron Herself caused this tendril of a heavenspillar to remain thus suspended, that it might serve the forest's people. I'm rather fond of the notion, myself.
It is─regrettably─my duty to stand watch over the road from here to Bentbranch Meadows.
The ranch has become a veritable institution of Gridania, so any threats to its continued operation are taken quite seriously by the Wood Wailers.
Which reminds me─mayhap it was my imagination, but I believe I caught a glimpse of some shadowy fellow not too long ago. Would you mind passing word to Roseline down below? I would go myself but, well...it's hard enough marshaling the courage to walk the root for my shift...
A shadowy fellow? Hmmm...now that you mention it, I may have seen something.
I dismissed it as a trick of the light before, but I thought I saw a shadow in the forest to the north. Still, I suspect it is nothing more than a Qiqirn thief on the run.
If you must sate your curiosity, by all means investigate. Should you actually find something of note, I would like very much to see it.
Hmmm? Have you found something?
Remnants of a campfire and a forgotten bag...this could belong to any adventurer or traveler. And inside we have...a chocobo grooming brush and roseling oil?
But wait─why would a traveler make camp here, when it would be far safer to beg the hospitality of Bentbranch Meadows?
Bugger me, I think this belongs to that stranger said to be meddling with the chocobos! Thank you, adventurer. We have been lax in our duties, but no longer─I swear we will find this shadow.
We cannot allow other sentries to dismiss similar sightings─they must know what we have learned. To that end, I've prepared this letter containing everything we know about our mysterious stranger.
I need you to show it to my comrades throughout the Shroud. Once each sentry has committed the details to memory, have them write their name at the bottom for confirmation.
Start with Elmar at the Bannock, then find Bernard at the eastern gates of Bentbranch Meadows. They ought to relay the information to the others.
Finally, make sure Eylgar sees the letter. He stands watch within the stables, so if this stranger's aim is to harm the chocobos, Eylgar may have to personally put an end to it.
