This your first time in a tavern? It's customary to buy a drink if you mean to loiter. What'll you be having?
A fine choice. And what'll you be paying with?
Well now...those are exotic. Where did you come by coins like that?
I'm sorry, dear, I don't doubt they have value... But I don't have a touchstone to test their purity, and I'm not about to go begging for one from the neighbors─so we'll just have to come to some other arrangement.
Ah, here's an idea... There's a common to the north where we grow our vegetables, but lately the pests have been eating more of them than we have. What do you say to a bit of extermination work?
I want you to squash any vermin you find, then visit the caretaker and give him an earful from me for sleeping on the job. He'll be in the old silo next to the fence─snoring, like as not.
Do that for me, and you can laze about here as long as you like.
Do that for me, and you can laze about here as long as you like.
Do that for me, and you can laze about here as long as you like.
Do that for me, and you can laze about here as long as you like.
Do that for me, and you can laze about here as long as you like.
Welcome back, dear. What did that good-for-nothing caretaker have to say for himself?
...Gone? Hmph. Must have left to join the rest of the hopefuls.
...In Gatetown. Outside Eulmore? You don't have a clue what I'm talking about, do you. And there I was thinking you were another dreamer.
Well, never mind all that. Take a seat wherever you like, dear, you've more than earned it. I'll even throw in another drink, on the house.
And how is business today, Mistress Theva?
Oh, frenetic. Look. I have a new customer.
...'Tis good to see you, my friend.
The barley seeds you wanted. They should produce a better harvest than the last.
What, just like that? Oh, Alphinaud, you really are a dear.
Well, I'd best be tidying up some of those empty shacks before the pests move in. Keep an eye on the place while I'm out, eh?
It seems an age since last we spoke. Not since the prisoner exchange in Doma. And Yotsuyu...
It has been even longer for me, of course, if you count the days I have spent here. But the time has only added to the relief I feel, seeing you safe and well.
Hah! Alisaie said much the same thing. I don't think I've ever had such a scolding.
But I believe an exchange of news is in order. Come─tell me of your arrival, and all that came before!
I see. Both the Exarch and Alisaie told me what they knew of events, but I had stubbornly clung on to the hope that all-out war might yet be avoidable...
And poor Tataru─she must be sick with worry. We must endeavor to return as soon as we may...
'Twould be nice to bring her good tidings for a change.
But before we bid this world farewell, we must first ensure that it is not rejoined to the Source. We must prevent the Eighth Umbral Calamity.
Urianger's vision of the future has, I fear, every chance of coming true.
By his description, the catalyst for the Calamity was a formless and deadly weapon employed by the Garlean Empire.
Which can only mean one thing: Black Rose. Gaius was telling you the truth. When we were on the trail of the Ascians, we saw evidence that the gas was being manufactured once more.
Gaius was adamant that the project had been scrapped. But so long as there are wars to be waged, there will always be those determined to win by any means.
And thus simply destroying the existing stores of Black Rose would do little to alter fate's course.
In that sense, our involuntary journey here to the First was something of a boon.
Together with the Exarch, we've developed a theory as to how we believe the Rejoining will be set in motion.
I am sure Urianger himself will cover the subject in more detail...
But I can tell you the process requires that both worlds─the Source and the First─be facing an existential threat.
One being sin eaters, of course.
They are a menace that I would dearly love to remove, and not just to avert a calamity.
I may be a stranger to this world, but I will not stand idly by and let innocent people be slaughtered.
That is what brought me to the gates of Eulmore. Ignoring its pretentions as a kind of capital city to what remains of the world, it is nonetheless a center of power and authority.
If any solutions are to be found, I believe our search should begin there. What say you, old friend? Hungry for another adventure?
And so we take to the road once more!
Assuming you have no objections, let us make our way directly to the city outskirts.
If we time our arrival just right, you may be lucky enough to see why I have yet to set foot in Eulmore─despite my best efforts to do so...
Come. From here, we must head west, and then cross a small bridge...
Kholusia seems peaceful, does it not? Almost...familiar? I had a similar impression of the Crystarium. Even in this distant world, people are much the same.
<sigh> To think that whenever a calamity struck the Source, a reflection such as this one─with all its culture and history─was being erased from existence...
