He was already cold when I got to him... There was naught I could do.That charm must've been important. You'd best take it to Conrad.
M'naago? Meffrid? Where are you...?
This...this is...
...He's dead, isn't he.
Meffrid was a worrier. Always thinking about others before himself. He once had an imperial patrol chase him nigh on twenty malms so that his wounded would have time to escape...
His comrades loved him for it, of course...though that only made him worry more. Did you know that he sent his men in Quarrymill away because he thought they were fighting for him, and not the cause? Aye, well, he did. The only life he was willing to risk was his own, you see.
But that's exactly the kind of man who should be leader! The kind of man who deserves to survive. Not a...not an old fool who's all used up.
...There's no logic to it, Master Kemp. There never is.
Who stands, who falls... In the heat of battle, we can but do our best─as he did. Meffrid will be sorely missed, aye...but because of his sacrifice, many now live who otherwise would not─and they need us, now more than ever.
Aye...aye, that they do. Forgive me. I had...high hopes for him, is all...
Our defeat was no near thing. It was total─a humiliation. We were powerless to withstand our enemy's assault.
But we cannot afford to dwell on our failure. As Alphinaud said, it is those who survived whom we must think of now.
Rhalgr's Reach is no longer safe. The imperials may have withdrawn, but they could return at any time to finish what they began. We dare not remain here.
Those who are not fit to make the journey to Castrum Oriens will need to be taken by chocobo carriage. Agreed?
Good. I shall oversee preparations for the carriages. In the meantime, I would have you scour the infirmary for any supplies that might prove useful during the journey.
Forgive me, but it is imperative that I continue preparing medicines for the wounded. If you desire treatment, I must ask that you seek it elsewhere.
Oh, I see... In that case, you are free to search the Barber and take that which you require. I would not have our people dying en route.
I would assist you, but this process demands my undivided attention.
