Greetings, and welcome to the Arcanists' Guild. Do you require assistance?
...So you are acquainted with our newest member. Hmm... I am sorry to be the bearer of bad news, but...I fear young Tataru may not be ideally suited to the study of arcanima.
Nevertheless, she would not be denied, and goes now to undertake her first trial: a simulated inspection of three crates. A simple task, some might say, but one all arcanists are expected to complete.
A thought occurs to me─why not supervise Tataru's training? You are clearly an accomplished adventurer, and given your relationship with the girl, you seem an ideal person to have on hand. Her trial will be conducted at the cliffs south of the Zephyr Gate. You need only observe at a distance.
O'er azure seas to pirates' port,♪Where she met her shining jewel...♪
For to bring the smugglers' plans to naught,♪Came the lass whom none could fool!♪
Beat 'em with a Backdraft!♪Gut 'em with a Gust!♪Deck 'em with a Downburst!♪Go, Carbuncle, go!♪
O～hohoho! Are those crates I spy?
Ah, and this must be the true test! But we're ready for them, aren't we, Carbuncle!?
...Carbuncle?
Uwaaah! Come back, Carbuncle! Come baaack!
I should've known you'd come, Forename.
You needn't say a word─your face says it all. I know you bore witness to my shame.
<sniffle> Betrayed by my own Carbuncle and left at the mercy of wild beasts...
I...I must accept the truth. I'll never be a warrior like you or the others.
I will inform Mistress Thubyrgeim of my intention to withdraw from the guild. Arcanima...like so much else...is beyond me.
Ah, back so soon? How fared our fledgling arcanist?
Abysmally, Mistress Thubyrgeim, abysmally─as Forename will testify.
I was wrong to become an arcanist. Wrong as usual. I am completely and utterly unqualified, and I sincerely apologize for wasting your time.
...Tataru. If that were true, I would not have permitted you to join in the first place.
We must all come to accept our limitations, lest our ambitions lead us astray. However, we must not lose sight of our strengths in the process.
For example, your exceptional skill with numbers helped you to gain a solid grasp of the fundamentals of arcanima. Were it not so, you would have struggled even to summon Carbuncle to your side.
In my opinion, the Scions are truly fortunate to have such a capable and good-natured receptionist in their service. Would you not agree?
You are too kind, Mistress Thubyrgeim. Though I could not overcome this challenge, I shall take your words to heart and try not to be discouraged.
&ltsigh> As fetching as these garments are, I fear I shall never don them again...
But I can't go back to the Rising Stones without something to show for my time away.
Wait─I know what I can do! That is, if you don't mind accompanying me for a little longer?
Wonderful! Then to Costa del Sol we will go! It's a bit of a gamble, but I'm confident it will pay off!
Yes, this is it! This is where the man at the Drowning Wench told me to look!
There is a certain variety of clam which can be harvested this time of year in Bloodshore─one which produces the most marvelous pearls!
However, these clams are also coveted by certain wild creatures─and since I fared rather poorly in battle last time... Ahem. Let us be off!
What fortune, I've already found one! Would you be so kind as to keep watch while I work? This should only take a moment...
Well fought, Forename, well fought! I knew I was right to ask you to come.
As for me, I have my prize: a bounty of blood pearls!
So named for their reddish hue, they were treasured as wards against dark magicks in ancient times.
I thought I might make charms for everyone...so that no matter where they go, they will always come home.
It's sort of the power to defend myself and other people...in a way. Right, well, I mustn't keep F'lhaminn waiting! There's work to be done─and lots of it!
We're to secure provisions for the Scions in the Lominsan markets. She may have an eye for quality, but I have a nose for bargains!
Will you be heading back to the Rising Stones? If so, pray convey my apologies to the Antecedent, and tell her that she needn't worry about me.
Farewell, Forename, and thank you for everything!Hmmm, that sounded rather final, didn't it? How about...until we meet again!
Welcome home, Forename. I gather you found Tataru in Limsa Lominsa?
My, it sounds as though she had quite an adventure. And while it did not end as she had hoped, I suspect that it will prove to be a valuable experience.
I daresay she could have managed without our intervention. Even so, I appreciate you indulging my request.
I wonder, do you perchance recall the commitment I made to furnish Hoary Boulder with a capable adventurer? Well, I am sorry to say that I have as yet been unable to do so. Now, I realize that you are rather more than a “capable adventurer,” and that escort duty is frankly beneath a woman of your talents...but I have no one else to turn to at present. Might you be willing to forgo rest and assist us in this matter?
Generous to a fault. I thank you, Forename.
Now, it seems only fair that I explain the import of the task in question...For some time, our order has employed a handful of scholars to travel around Eorzea taking aetheric readings that we might better understand the impact of primal summonings.
Naturally, it behooves us to ensure our employees' safety, and so we ask the adventurers in our service to serve as escorts.
Hoary Boulder and Coultenet were to act as two such escorts, as was a third adventurer...
Alas, due to injury, said adventurer is not presently fit for duty─hence my need to impose upon your goodwill.
You truly are a pillar of strength, Forename.
Hoary Boulder will share with you the details of your task. He should be waiting for you outside. Be safe.
Ah, Forename! Is it true that you agreed to lend us a hand?
Huzzah! What did I tell you, Coultenet? Our misfortune is become a blessing─an opportunity to serve alongside the Warrior of Light herself!
Need I remind you that we have three scholars to escort, each of whom will take a different route?
True, true─but our mission is the same! Separated by malms we may be, but in spirit we shall be together!
If such thoughts bring you joy, you are welcome to think them.
To more practical concerns─Forename, we would have you attend to the scholar charged with surveying the South Shroud.
He is waiting at Camp Tranquil as we speak. All you need do is follow the man─he will determine the most appropriate locations to take his readings.
In spirit, Forename─in spirit, we shall be together every step of the way!
