Who cometh to this forsaken place and disturbeth my solitude?
Tiamat, my child.
...Father? Can it truly be you?
None other. My form is such that I may journey with Hydaelyn's chosen─
A mortal who desireth to end the war between man and dragon.
Millennia have passed since I was brought low by the men of Allag. To think that war rageth still between our kinds...
Hearken to my tale, child of man. I am Tiamat, of Midgardsormr's first brood.
In a time before time, my father did come to this star, bearing seven eggs.
From these eggs did my children hatch. And once they were full-grown, they took wing and spread across all the lands of Hydaelyn.
Together with my brood-brother Bahamut, I journeyed south to Meracydia. And together, we brought forth innumerable children into the world.
We abided in peace, and all was well...until the men of Allag came, some five thousand years since. They slaughtered my children in droves, and took from me my beloved Bahamut.
'Twas then, when I had fallen into the depths of despair, that black-robed men came unto me. The Ascians.
They offered to resurrect Bahamut through their dark arts, and I, in my grief, accepted─a decision which I shall regret unto my dying breath.
For what they brought back was a mockery of my beloved. Worse, the Ascians gifted his murderers the means to entrap him.
Know this, child of man: the beings thy kind call gods are but specters of thy mind's creation, given form at great cost to Hydaelyn.
Many such beings yet slumber across the land, brought to heel by the selfsame empire that bound me. They must not be released into the world.
If thou wouldst end the conflict, vanquish thee the Ascians, and deliver the weak of will from the bonds of their dark influence.
It hath been five thousand years, my child. Wilt thou not forgive thyself?
The release of death is denied me here, yet I desire not freedom. Nay, Father. I shall live with my regret until the world itself hath ceased to be.
Such is my just punishment for consorting with Darkness─for calling forth a loathsome and lamentable creature which blackeneth my beloved's memory.
Warrior of Light. Beloved daughter.
The Light abideth within thy heart again.
Full valiantly didst thou overcome thy many trials.
But glory not in thy success.
For the servants of Darkness are ever close at hand.
Receive of me my blessing once more,
And go forth, to shine thy Light on all creation.
Thou hast broken down the wall I built around thee, and partaken of thy mistress's blessing once more.
Strong art thou, mortal─stronger than any other of thy kind.
Having looked upon thy deeds, I am convinced. Thou art worthy to bear Her Light.
The covenant bound me to thee, but 'twould seem our fates were mingled from the first. Though I will not fight thy battles, I will yet lend thee my wings.
Come, mortal─we go to cast out the Darkness!
