Yes, yes, I am Timaios, but please keep your voice down. You'll startle the birds.
...So, what is it you wished to speak about?
A fellow enthusiast, are you? Well, settle in, and we can discuss the finer points of this fascinating craft!
My deep and abiding love of avian artistry can be traced back to when I was but a young boy, stricken by the transcendent beauty of a glorious, golden-feathered creature my father had designed. It was then and there that I vowed to one day surpass that masterpiece...
My deep and abiding love of avian artistry can be traced back to when I was but a young boy, stricken by the transcendent beauty of a glorious, golden-feathered creature my father had designed. It was then and there that I vowed to one day surpass that masterpiece...
...And thus did I secure an observer's role here in Elpis, and at last realize my childhood ambition. Here, the dreams I once dreamed are an everyday reality, in which I find fulfillment through the research and creation of new flying life-forms!
An abridged recounting of events, as was doubtless to your disappointment. Is there any specific part you would like me to expound upon...?
...Hm? You were hoping for my opinion on Chief Hermes's creations? Then why didn't you say so!?
Chief Hermes's work? A worthy subject, indeed...
Those beings which soar through the clouds, majestic and graceful, are ever a favorite of creators. Even now, with so many varieties in existence, the flood of newly imagined concepts continues unabated.
What sets the chief's creations apart, however, is how they benefit from his boundless knowledge of the celestial realm.
Birds that climb so high that they disappear from view. Others which traverse the boundless sky in moments, and all without riding the currents...
I know of none save he who can conceive of such marvels. Even we who prize elegance of form above all else are dumbfounded by his genius.
What!? You mean plagiarize!?
Now, see here. When I take up the threads of creation and begin to weave, I must do so in the belief that I am giving birth to something beautiful. If, in my heart, I knew I was appropriating another's inspiration...
Now, see here. When I take up the threads of creation and begin to weave, I must do so in the belief that I am giving birth to something beautiful. If, in my heart, I knew I was appropriating another's inspiration...
...And such an unconscionable, disgraceful act would be deserving of the utmost scorn!
Therefore, despite my admiration for Meteion as a concept, I have made a conscious effort not to delve too deeply into the inner workings of her nature.
My opinion on that matter would be superficial at best...
Despite my admiration for Meteion as a concept, I have never delved too deeply into the inner workings of her nature.
I know that she has a gift for communicating via emotions, but otherwise, her abilities are a mystery to me.
If Chief Hermes should choose to submit Meteion's concept to the Bureau of the Architect, then will the design be registered for public scrutiny. Analyzing a colleague's creation before that step is...frowned upon, to say the least.
Of course, if he came to me─a fellow artisan─looking for advice, that would be an entirely different story.
Dynamis and...entelechies?
Those terms do sound vaguely familiar... Was there not a flower made here in Elpis which exhibited properties of one or the other?
It must have been centuries since I last heard anyone speak of such things. Has there been a resurgence in interest?
No, no, no! Did I not just explain how that was frowned upon!? I couldn't possibly circumvent conventional practice by...
...Hm. Unless you were sharing such information in the hopes of receiving a constructive opinion...on the application of advanced creation techniques...then I would be practically obligated to...
...Hm. Unless you were sharing such information in the hopes of receiving a constructive opinion...on the application of advanced creation techniques...then I would be practically obligated to...
...So you see, ethically I have no choice but to allow you to disclose Meteion's lesser-known qualities!
Dynamis...and entelechies?
Those terms do sound vaguely familiar... Was there not a flower made here in Elpis which exhibited properties of one or the other?
It must have been centuries since I last heard anyone speak of such things. And you know how they relate to Meteion and her design?
Then why bring up the subject? I'm flattered that you sought my insight, but I cannot afford to neglect my duties for the sake of idle chatter.
Now, I really must return to my observations. Surely you have your own tasks to attend to?
As I said, I have work to be getting on with. If you wish to speak more, you'll have to wait until I've finished for the day.
Back already? That was quick work. You were obviously clever enough to head off any of that “rambling” Ismene mentioned.
Ah, good timing. I finished my own investigations not long ago.
At last! You were gone so long I was beginning to wonder if you'd slipped into the stream and banged your head, or something equally unfortunate.
So, have you any new findings to share?
I see. Even an expert in the field had little understanding of Meteion's capabilities, let alone an awareness of dynamis.
My questions resulted in much the same answers. Hermes's colleagues view Meteion as his personal project, and could provide no details beyond those which you just told me.
Which leads me to believe that the only person with any significant knowledge of dynamis is Hermes himself.
Yes, we've made some progress here...but more information is needed if we are to reach any definitive conclusions.
At present, the strongest link we have to the Final Days is the power of dynamis...and the entelechies which can control it.
Yet most scholars are only vaguely aware of these terms, let alone study them in any depth. Except for Hermes, it seems.
Thus I am inclined to stay our current course, and learn all we can about the chief overseer and his familiar.
And on that subject, was there aught else of note you can tell me about Meteion? Aside from her unorthodox method of communication?
...I rather wish you had mentioned that earlier. In any event, would you care to elaborate?
So these siblings of hers now travel the great expanse in search of deeper meaning...
Thank you. Though the mystery at hand remains unresolved, I feel you've touched upon a vital clue─one we should keep in mind as we continue.
Next, I propose we take ourselves to Peripeteia Krystalline, not far from here. Just follow the path to the west.
This tower and the one further along are both part of Peripeteia Krystalline, the facility where they archive all of Elpis's observational and testing records.
Despite how they appear from the outside, the interior is actually a vast area of magically interconnected spaces, which...while fascinating, is not the reason we are here, is it?
I shall cut my architectural lesson short, and see what those two archivists have to share.
If you could find someone to speak with over at the other tower, I shall join you there anon.
How odd that I should suggest this approach without a second thought...
You've come from a time and place that is dramatically different. Yet here we are, working side by side─or apart, as the situation demands─with barely a word of explanation required.
No matter the centuries which separate us, we are of the same star. We share a connection. And I hope that together, we might find the answers you seek.
