At once, my lord!
Ah, 'twould seem I have visitors─and unlike those massing beyond our walls, these ones are welcome.
Pray forgive us for interrupting you in the midst of your preparations, Ser Aymeric, but our suit concerns the impending assault. To speak plain, we believe there is a chance the invasion might be halted before it even begins.
I can divulge little more at this time, but I must nevertheless request that you advise the Holy See to refrain from launching any preemptive sorties whilst we seek to put our plans in motion.
I will gladly lend my support to any endeavor that could spare the blood of my countrymen─but I would know more of the cause you would have me champion. Will you not share aught of this mysterious undertaking?
Know that I have offered my lance to aid in this endeavor. I cannot claim that its success is assured, but our actions should serve to delay Nidhogg's advance at the very least.
Which is more than can be said for the ill-conceived counterattack advocated by the See's more vocal crusaders. They offer glorious death, but little hope of victory.
Aye...their proposal does not inspire confidence. Our resources should rightly be spent shoring up the city's defenses.
Hmmm. The Azure Dragoon and the Warrior of Light, sallying forth together to face the dread wyrm, Nidhogg...
I must admit, the mere thought of it does much to dispel my misgivings. Go, then─carry out your plan. I shall do what I can for you within the Holy See.
Having secured Ser Aymeric's support, we may proceed without fear of a preemptive Ishgardian attack─which is not to say we can afford to dither.
History tells us that the Dravanians will attack as soon as their Horde reaches a critical size. Before that happens, we must needs track down and win over the Lady Iceheart...and then locate and parley with Nidhogg.
In short, time is against us. If you are ready, Estinien, let us be about our task.
Such commotion...
Yes, Your Eminence. The bells of the Observatorium warn of our enemy's approach...
So...the dragons are coming.
Let them come─in their hundreds and their thousands. With the divine blade in our hands, we shall rend their flesh and drown the heretics in their masters' blood. Even Nidhogg and his foul brood shall be powerless to resist us.
And when we have rid the world of their pestilence, we shall turn our attention to our Ascian allies─see that they are suitably rewarded for their invaluable assistance.
If I may, Your Eminence. The Paragons wield powers strange and unknowable. Can we be certain that they will not see through our deception?
We can be certain of naught save the righteousness of our cause. If you would be a true leader of men, you must possess conviction as well as caution.
We seek to excise the root of an evil that has blighted us for a thousand years. The risk is worth the reward.
And what of Estinien and this Warrior of Light? They have plans of their own...
Leave them to their purpose. We must each play the role we have been given...you and your chosen brothers most of all.
For the glory of King Thordan...
Before we set forth, we must needs inform Tataru of our plans.
Then I shall await you at Saint Reinette's Forum. Tell your friend we may be some time─the road you have chosen is neither short nor easy.
Of that I need no reminding. Come, Forename. Let us head back to Fortemps Manor.
Our course is set, Tataru. It may be some time before Forename and I return to Ishgard.
Well, just you be careful, all right? Oh, and don't worry about me─I'll be busy listening out for news of our lost friends!
If anyone can find them, it is you, Tataru. Farewell, for now...
Oh! Oh! Before you go! You must put this on, Alphinaud! I made it specially!
No, no, I...I couldn't possibly... <sigh> Very well.
By the Twelve... It fits perfectly. And the quality is...actually rather good.
I'm glad you like it! I've been practicing my needlework while I listen to rumors and the like. A good receptionist is always learning new skills!
My thanks, Tataru. Whatever else awaits me upon the road, I shall not fear the cold.
'Twas the least I could do. Now, I must be getting back to the tavern, or I'll never catch up with all the gossip! Best of luck on your journey!
You have said your farewells, then?
Aye, we are ready to depart. I suggest we begin our search for Lady Iceheart without delay.
Very well, but she will prove an elusive quarry. Where do you intend to start looking?
In the absence of any fresh intelligence on Ysayle's movements, I propose we pick up the trail where she was encountered last─the Coerthas western highlands.
Let us speak with...Ser Redwald, was it? As the commander of Falcon's Nest, it is like that he will know if any heretic activity has been reported in the area.
Well, well! Mistress Surname! What business brings you back to Falcon's Nest?
...Judging by the company you keep, it can be no trifling matter. The Azure Dragoon I know, of course, but I do not believe I have met this young gentleman...?
Alphinaud Leveilleur, at your service. And you are not mistaken as to the gravity of our mission, Ser Redwald. As I am sure you are aware, the Observatorium has warned that the Dravanians gather for another assault.
We believe there may yet be a way to avert the coming conflict─but only if we can find the elusive Lady Iceheart. Thus have we come to Falcon's Nest in the hope of acquiring the latest intelligence on the heretics' movements.
I see. Then you would be best served by speaking directly to my men. A patrol is due to return from its sweep of the surrounding lands at any moment.
You may also wish to question the knights assigned to pick over the remains of the heretic refuge at Gorgagne Mills. 'Tis possible they have unearthed information that could be of use to you. Mistress Surname knows well the place I speak of, for it was she who first discovered it.
Let us divide our forces, then. I will stay and await the return of the patrol while the two of you visit this refuge. When I have completed my inquiries, I will join you there.
A wise use of our time.
Come, Forename. I am eager to learn what Ser Redwald's men have found in the heretics' lair.
