You dare intrude upon this sacred mount!?My jaws shall run red with the blood of men!
And abandon our mission? Don't be absurd.
Arrogant insects!Be crushed beneath the weight of my fury!
Nidhogg, my beloved...Avenge me...
Forename!?
'Twould seem Tioman was the last. I sense no other dragons nearby.
What is happening!?
<gasp> Nidhogg... He roars.
He knows we are here, then?
His fury... <gasp> It bleeds through the Eye.
Fear not, I am yet my own master...
...But that damned wyrm's wrath burns hotter than flame... Come, the heart of the dragons' homeland yet lies before us.
Thus do we add another link to the chain of vengeance. Oh, Saint Shiva, when will it end...?
To the peak of Sohm Al, at the end of a perilous mountain path...
Whence could be seen a string of pearl-like islands, floating impossibly atop a sea of clouds.
To a domain where fragons and men had once lived in harmony, whose majesty no mortal eye had glimpsed for nigh on a thosand years, they came.
We have reached it at last... The peak of Sohm Al.
'Tis said to be the highest mountain in all of Eorzea, you know. I thought it cold in Coerthas, but the air here carries the chill of a dozen winters...
Now that we have scaled the mountain, there remains the problem of finding Hraesvelgr himself...
What manner of creature is that...?
Forename. Do my eyes deceive me, or was that a moogle?
It was my understanding that they only dwelled within the Twelveswood. I certainly never expected to see one in the Churning Mists...
If the moogle does live here, however, he may know where Hraesvelgr makes his lair. Quickly, now, before we lose the creature completely!
Bah, he's gone! Forename, we must widen our search.
Bah, he's gone! Forename, we must widen our search.
I have heard tales of these moogles, but 'tis the first time I've ever laid eyes on one. They are rather adorable, aren't they?
What─ Why do you stare at me so? Can I not find a creature adorable? My heart is not truly made of ice...
I see no evidence of this moogle of yours. Are you certain it wasn't a trick of the light? Mayhaps 'twas simply one of these strange plants, shifting in a breeze...
I see no evidence of this moogle of yours. Are you certain it wasn't a trick of the light? Mayhaps 'twas simply one of these strange plants, shifting in a breeze...
I'm sure I glimpsed the moogle fleeing in this direction. Could he be concealing himself with magic...?
Confound it. Could we but enlist the aid of one of the local moogles, I am certain Hraesvelgr would not elude us for long...
Though the Eye enables me to sense the presence of dragons, I can only identify Nidhogg's with any certainty. We could wander the Mists for days, and not know if we were any closer to his brood-brother...
And those are days we cannot well afford to squander. Shall we divide our forces, then?
Lady Ysayle─might I ask you to question any dragons whom you judge it safe to approach?
I shall try. Yet I fear the influence of Nidhogg's rage will render most of the Dravanians in the area deaf to reason. And what of you, Master Alphinaud?
I have not yet given up on the moogles.
Forename─come with me to Gridania. I mean to petition the aid of the moogles' kin in the Twelveswood. After that business with Moggle Mog, I daresay they will be glad to help us.
Assuming you have no need of me, I shall remain here.
Nidhogg senses both the loss of his consort and the coming of the Eye, and his attention is firmly fixed in this direction. I mean to do what I can to hold his gaze, in the hope that it might delay any action against Ishgard.
Thank you, Estinien.
Come then, Forename, let us make haste for Gridania, and rendezvous at Nophica's Altar. Ah, but I neglected to tell you...
There is an aetheryte of ancient construction here which should make the return journey rather less arduous. Pray do not forget to use it!
I sent word to the Elder Seedseer upon arriving in Gridania, and I am pleased to report that she has agreed to grant us an audience. If anyone can help us to contact the Twelveswood moogles, it is she.
We are expected at the Lotus Stand. I trust you are familiar with the conjurer stationed at its entrance?
The Elder Seedseer awaits you. Pray follow me.
I bid you welcome, friends. The Admiral spoke of having met with you, but 'tis no less of a relief to see you safe and hale with mine own eyes.
We humbly thank you for agreeing to receive us upon such short notice, my lady─and for all you have done for us in our absence. Would that it were solely to express our gratitude that we came to you this day...
Alas, the tides of battle yet dictate our comings and goings. Elder Seedseer─we would beg your wisdom in a matter that may finally bring an end to the Dragonsong War.
Speak on, friend.
...I see. So you seek a means to contact these moogles of the Churning Mists...
Kupopopo! I say, kupo!
Greetings, Kuplo Kopp. To what do we owe the pleasure of your company?
I was struck by the sudden urge to bring you some fruit, Kan-E─and I'm jolly glad I did! Tell me more about these moogles in the sky, kupo!
I will gladly tell you all I know─though it amounts to precious little. We encountered a moogle high in the clouds of Dravania, and had hoped that you and your kin in the Twelveswood might agree to facilitate a meeting.
Pray correct me if I am mistaken, Kuplo, but there are legends, are there not, which speak of moogles who dwelled beyond the clouds?
Indeed there are, kupo! Long, long ago, back when the world was still young, they say my ancestors served the gods up in the heavens. Of course, that was before their masters took to bickering like spoiled children...
Ah, yes, the tale of Good King Moggle Mog XII. He is revered for holding fast to a rope of miraculous length, that his subjects might climb down from the sky and escape to the world below.
Hmm... Ignoring the more fanciful aspects of the tale, it may well be that Kuplo's ancestors hailed from the Churning Mists. Given how long his kin have resided in the Twelveswood, it is perfectly possible that the details of their history have faded into myth...
Indeed, Master Alphinaud. Such stories oft contain a measure of truth. 'Tis like that the moogles of the Churning Mists tell similar tales of the world below... I can well imagine why the one you encountered fled at your approach.
Oh, fleeing's second nature to us! We often hide when the larger races come tramping through the forest. Of course, where there's one moogle, there's bound to be more...
...Which is why I've decided to take a trip to the clouds, kupo! They surely won't be afraid to talk to me!
I was hoping you might say that, Master Kuplo. You will accompany us, then?
Just you try and stop me, kupo! I'll admit, the thought of venturing outside the Twelveswood is a bit unsettling, but I can hardly refuse a chance to meet my distant, distant cousins!
If you will have me, I too will accompany you on this venture, and lend my voice to your cause as an ambassador of Gridania.
M-My lady, I─ Are you quite certain?
How oft has our nation turned to the Scions of the Seventh Dawn in its hour of need? How oft have we asked the Warrior of Light to risk her life to save our own?
Full many times, I say to you─and never have they refused us. Thus do I choose this day to offer mine aid to our allies for the good of the realm.
...Is this not just?
A most unexpected─and most welcome─offer, Elder Seedseer. We would be honored by your presence.
Pray return to the summit and inform our companions of these developments─I will serve as the Elder Seedseer's guide on the journey back to Sohm Al.
It being a path I have already trodden, I do not anticipate any great difficulties. Besides, we shall have the Elder Seedseer's personal guard to escort us.
Well met, Warrior of Light. Nidhogg has not stirred, but he watches us, unblinking...
...Hm? The Elder Seedseer herself answers your call? Then there is naught to do but wait.
They are here, Forename.
Greetings, my friends. I am happy to report that our journey was mercifully uneventful, devoid as the road was of Dravanians. 'Twould seem the dragons have abandoned Sohm Al for the Churning Mists.
Elder Seedseer, may I present to you Ser Estinien, Ishgard's Azure Dragoon.
'Tis an honor to meet you, Ser Estinien. I have heard many tales of your order's extraordinary skill and courage.
Friends─I feel it only right to inform you that we are not alone. The moogles are all around us even as we speak. And I should imagine they are more than a little concerned by the horde of strangers that have descended upon their home. Mayhap now would be an opportune moment to introduce ourselves.
This should serve...
They're hiding, of course─but there are so many of them, kupo!
I am Kan-E-Senna. My companions and I have braved the long road from the Twelveswood to share words with you.
On this, the occasion of our first meeting, we bring an offering of light and wind.
