Why? Why did you imprison us?
Such boredom...such tedium have we suffered. It is unfair! Unfair!
Come. Come and play with us...
It came from the castle.
This is everything I have. Please see it delivered to the Nu Mou.
I will bear word to Thancred and the others.
M-M-Mercy, Your Majesty! We had no choice! Please forgive us!
...O-Oh, it's you. M-M-My ink─were you able to retrieve it?
Haha! Yes, this is the ink, and almost all of it too!
When our king spoke to me, my day went from bad to worse, but thanks to you it's simply bad again!
What? You had the vision too? Oh, woe is us...
Ordinarily, when a living being turns into a sin eater, it loses everything about its mind that defined it. However, the king has retained some of their instincts.
This manifests in the desire to play and be free. So strong is that desire, it often leaks through the seal to invade our consciousness.
For a long time we've ignored it, but we can't do so forever...
But forgive me, I was going to thank you for reuniting me with my ink. You did exactly as I asked, so I will give you the service I promised....Ahem! Nothing up my sleeve, and...voilà! May it serve you well!
Ahhh, there's nothing like honorable work. Thanks again for giving me the opportunity!
Oh, I should mention that Elder Wyd Aenc returned a moment ago. If you seek them out, I daresay they'll have tidings for you.
Ah, there you are. I'm informed that you've been an excellent patron to our people. For that, you have my thanks.
Now then, you will be pleased to hear that we've come to a decision regarding the scepter. If you would gather your companions, I will deliver our answer.
Before I begin, please allow me to express my gratitude for your kind patronage.
Having been deprived of purpose for so long, our people are overjoyed at being able to serve again.
But on to the matter of the stone scepter.
During our deliberations, we were forced to concede that we will never have the power to deal with our fallen monarch. We can release Titania neither from the castle nor from torment.
In light of this, we have decided to entrust their fate to you.
Take it─the stone scepter of the Nu Mou.
This makes three relics. One more and we can arrange a meeting with the Warden.
Ere you continue your quest, allow me to enlighten you as regards your foe.
Know that Titania is not a name, but a title bestowed upon one chosen to lead the pixies by the grace of nature.
This leader, upon Il Mheg's founding, arose as ruler of all fae folk to bring order to our riotous kind. In our turn, we fae folk render our blessing unto nature─unto water, wood, and wind─that our king might be further empowered.
Though they are become a sin eater, their powers remain unchanged. When you face them, be prepared to face the full fury of nature.
Oh dear... Is there anything else that we should know?
Anything else...? Hmmm... Only that if you feel unready for the challenge─and none here would blame you for it─you are welcome to remain among us awhile longer.
After all, I myself have yet to enjoy your patronage, and who knows when I will next have the chance? We would see that you were comfortable, of course, and do all in our power to make you feel...at home. Eh heh heh...
Oi!
Honestly! I look away for one moment, and every faerie and their nuncle tries to steal my sapling from me!
This is my sapling! Mine, do you hear!? Not yours and not the Fuath's! And anyone who so much as thinks about trying to seduce her will wish they hadn't!
The final relic is a pair of shoes wrought of crystal. They are held in the amaro's safekeeping at their settlement, Wolekdorf.
It beareth mentioning that these amaro are unlike those which thou hast heretofore encountered. Owing to a peculiarity of evolution, they are capable of speech, and thus we might negotiate with them as we have the fae folk.
Though it saddens us to see you leave, we wish you well on your way.
When you arrive in Wolekdorf, seek out the largest of the amaro. His name is Seto, and he is their leader and the bearer of the relic.
When you arrive in Wolekdorf, seek out the largest of the amaro. His name is Seto, and he is their leader and the bearer of the relic.
