As you have correctly guessed, I am indeed Tobli. Head ledger of Wachunpelo, and head rancher of the Family Ranch.
I am also one of Gulool Ja Ja's chosen electors.
Aha! In a place featured in the Tuliyollal Saga, just as we thought!
I was right to trust in your instincts. And I wager this won't be the last time!
...Though it took more coin than I would've liked to know for certain.
She found you out fair and square, Tobli!
And I'm glad she did─would've been a pity had her bid ended here.
Deducing the Dawnservant's elector was the first step of the feat. Too simple a task for this aspiring ruler, eh?
Right... Not hard at all!
Zoraal Ja...
I am told the head ledger, Tobli, is to be found here.
You have to guess which one of us is Tobli! That's part of the test!
You are Tobli.
Without even asking a single question... Very impressive indeed.
With that amusing prologue out of the way, we can proceed to the actual challenge.
Per the Dawnservant's instructions, I was free to devise any manner of feat. I considered a number of possibilities─in the tens column─but I think I have a good one.
You must go forth...and capture for me an alpaca.
While I've not had the best experiences with alpacas, aren't they generally docile creatures? That doesn't sound like much of a challenge.
Bring out “the example”!
This is a special kind of alpaca. Would you please approach the animal, Third Promise?
Who, me? Well, it should stay calm if I stay calm, right? That's what Erenville said...
Aaargh!
The little monster spat on me!
Ugh...that stinks!
I can't─ Urrrggghhh!
Alpacas are paradoxical creatures, being both extremely curious and extremely cowardly.
Press your luck when they're frightened, and you'll get a face full of spit...as you've all just witnessed.
Has an awful stench, their expectoration. The globs contain half-digested food, you see, making it an effective deterrent against perceived threats.
Wild valley breeds, like this one, are especially timid─and can therefore be quick to lash out.
They're also especially hardy!
Indeed. We take the rugged wild alpacas and breed them with our gentle domesticated stock. This produces the strong-but-biddable pack animals prized by our traveling merchants.
That's all well and good. But did I need to bathe in alpaca spit for you to make your point...?
So the task is to catch a wild alpaca?
That is correct, but be warned that it is a feat easier said than done. I suggest you prepare well before you enter the valley where the creatures dwell.
And by “you,” I mean the claimants only. Allies are not permitted to assist with the catching.
The alpacas will help me judge which of you is worthy of receiving a keystone.
So I'm to chase down a fluffy, spitting demon...and that somehow proves I'm fit to rule.
As I said, the Dawnservant granted me the freedom to decide my challenge.
And when you reach the end of the rite, I daresay you will understand why I chose what I chose.
Very well. This won't take long.
W-Wait!
Didn't I warn you this was easier said than done!? There are preparations to be made! Factors to consider!
A beast is a beast. All yield to strength.
So far, this experience has done absolutely nothing to improve my opinion of alpacas.
But that doesn't mean I can't do this! Revolting spit aside, they're just another animal...
Are you all right, Wuk Lamat? We thought we heard you scream...
The Third Promise does not scream! It was more of a...startled yelp.
A scream, in other words.
Did you find the elector?
Oh, we certainly did...
So this is our sought-after elector.
Judging by the volume of Wuk Lamat's scream, alpaca expectoration must have a nasty odor, indeed. I'm content to remain ignorant of the smell.
I did say remaining calm was key, but the same rules don't apply to wild alpacas.
Zoraal Ja puts me in mind of Garlemald's own exalted son. Of the two, though, Zenos was undeniably more arrogant.
I was impressed with how easily Zoraal Ja found Tobli, but...also sort of frightened.
I've done my duty and assigned the claimants their feat. The rest is up to them.
<pant> <pant> I had to go and wash that nasty stuff off my face. I think I got all of it...
But would you mind taking a sniff for me, just to make sure? The stench has ruined my sense of smell.
Hey! I saw that look!
So, uh...can you still smell it? Be honest.
As Wuk Lamat helped demonstrate, the valley alpaca are wary of people. Getting close enough to catch one will not be an easy task.
You might have warned me about that earlier! I have enough trouble with tame alpacas─how do you expect me wrangle a wild one!?
With the proper saddle. We infuse the leather with a relaxing scent that soothes the spitting beast.
Wonderful! Give me one of those, then!
Have you perhaps forgotten we are a clan of merchants? If you want a taming saddle, then you'll need to find a saddler and make them an offer.
They don't come cheap, of course. Crafting a saddle will cost you the equivalent of ten pel...in the thousands column.
You mean ten thousand pel!? I don't have that kind of coin!
Converting to gil, that comes to around a million or so. Mayhap if we all pitch in...
No, no, this is my feat to accomplish─I wouldn't feel right about having others pay the cost. I'll find the money. Somehow.
In that case...
That basket of wool is worth the sum you paid me earlier: one pel, in the hundreds column.
Beginning with the wool, you can trade for ever more valuable goods until you have something suitable to bargain with for the saddle.
That's a nice gesture... But you think I can turn a hundred pel into a million? That's ten thousand times more!
We need ten thousand pel, not a million. So we're looking at a hundred times more.
Oh. Right. I panicked and got it confused with Alphinaud's million gil.
I'm not so sure about this trading idea... You were almost talked into buying a cloak you didn't need mere moments after you arrived.
But, I just... Gah, I hate it when you're right!
Then let me help you with your dealmaking!
Oh, hello again...uh...
Mablu! I work here as a ranch hand, but I've also learned a lot about the peddler profession!
It's alright if I aid them now, yes? I guided the claimants towards the first step of the feat, like you asked.
As long as Wuk Lamat goes alone to capture her alpaca, she is free to accept assistance from whomever she likes.
Hooray! Let's see about getting you that saddle, then, Third Promise.
I don't know why you made your offer, but I could use an ally with a beak for bargains. Welcome aboard, Mablu!
Should the rest of us stay behind, perhaps? It may be easier to haggle over prices without so many voices chiming in.
Yes, stay here and pitch in with the ranch work. With Mablu gone, I'll need extra hands to tend to the alpacas.
Gladly! Although, Forename, I think you should go with Wuk Lamat.
You've seen markets and bazaars the world over, and surely have sage advice to share.
In that case, you should also hold on to the alpaca wool. If it's misplaced or soiled in some way, you'll have nothing to bargain with.
As if I'd do such a thing! ...But I'll leave the wool with Forename anyway. The better to keep my hands free.
To begin, I suggest we try trading the wool to Havli, the saddler. He won't agree to the deal, of course, but it'll give us an idea of how much he'll accept for his wares!
Tending the alpacas, are we? I had some experience with that when I was younger...
Turning a hundred pel worth of wool into a ten thousand pel saddle is exactly the kind of suggestion I'd expect from the head of a merchant clan.
I have every confidence you'll come back with the saddle!
I'd worry if it was just Wuk Lamat, but it sounds like Mablu knows a thing or two about trading.
Mablu hasn't given up, I see...
This is the artisan who makes our taming saddles!
Is it really possible to make a hundred times what that wool is worth just through trading?
