...Are you emissaries of the ancient ones?
The mysteries have ssstirred. We have ssseen the illuminated land shhhining through the gloom of the abyss...
If you are the emissaries─the chosen─I bid you welcome. If you are not, I bid you leave.
I am...not sure I understand. Would you be willing to elaborate...?
......
...It would seem not. I suggest we withdraw for the moment.
So, what's the plan? Given your “condition,” I'm reluctant to suggest lingering here.
That said, our presently meandering search would proceed far more swiftly if we could call upon the Ondo's local knowledge.
Yes, I'd like to know more about this “illuminated land” the chieftain spoke of.
Could it be Emet-Selch's stronghold, do you suppose? Perhaps he...lit the lanterns upon his return?
We cannot dismiss the possibility, but if these Ondo refuse to speak with us...
Forename─do you remember my first scheme for entering Eulmore? How I had planned to ingratiate myself by offering lucrative trading opportunities with the Ondo?
The individual I dealt with was reticent in manner and curious in custom, but we were able to reach an agreement, nonetheless.
I believe that with the right approach, we can build a similar relationship here.
What kind of approach did you have in mind? That chieftain fellow didn't leave us many options.
If we are to tread the swiftest course, then we must needs locate its beginning. 'Tis plain our all too dramatic arrival hath thrown this settlement into confusion...
Were we to solve such problems as we have caused, and assure our hosts thereby that our purpose here is not inimical to them, they may yet prove amenable to reason.
...I smell chores. But very well─if it can be done quickly.
What do you think? I've nothing better to offer, but I do worry what will happen if the Ondo's tales end up leading us to a dead end.
I cannot say for certain, but I sense this tribe has a deeper connection to the Ascians than first meets the eye.
It warrants further investigation. Thus I cast my vote in favor of aiding the settlement for the time being.
Then it is settled. Y'shtola─pray proceed with your investigations. The rest of us will see about fostering some goodwill!
Forename! You won't believe who I've just bumped into!
This is Paushs Ooan, the very fellow I did business with prior to our ill-fated stay in Eulmore!
