Hold on. Did he say this is Wuk Lamat's nursemaid? Maybe this ain't such a good idea...
Take the goods to the boss. We'll deal with this.
Please, you have to give it back!
I'm going after Namikka. This lot I leave to you.
Cocky bastard! I'll hang 'im by the ears and feed the old woman to the dogs!
We can deal with them later. First, we need to put this one in the dirt.
We can deal with them later. First, we need to put this one in the dirt.
I'll pump you full of lead!
Hand over your money!
You're mine!
Tear 'em apart!
Time for you to bite the bullet!
Hyah!
Damn it all. SheHe doesn't know when to quit.
Ugh... We're dead if the boss finds out.
No need to worry. She's fine.
Thank you. I don't know what I would've done without you.
The bandit managed to get away, but I have an idea of where they're headed.
You said they stole something from you?
A bracelet. It was a parting gift from Wuk Lamat.
I see... Close as you two were, I can only imagine how much it meant to you.
But what brings you all this way?
With the rite of succession ended, and Wuk Lamat crowned the next Dawnservant, she is ready to stand on her own.
I told her as much, and of my plans to return home to Yyasulani. She gave me the bracelet that I might always remember our time together.
It filled me with such joy, I wanted everyone to know─everyone to see this wonderful gift given to me by the Vow of Resolve... And now it's gone.
I would've let them take every coin to my name, if only they had left me that bracelet.
I would ask what you intend to do, but I know that look.
Please, you mustn't put yourself in harm's way for my sake.
I can assure you, no harm will come to us. Forename will make certain of that.
I understand your methods can be brutal, but it would be wise to show some restraint, lest you find yourself on the wrong side of the law. Perhaps I should come as well, to be sure all proceeds as it should.
I don't know what to say... I can see why Wuk Lamat puts so much faith in you both.
Before anything else, let's see her back to Sheshenewezi Springs. She'll be safer in town, and with Iyaate there to keep an eye on her, we should have nothing to worry about.
Thank you. Both of you.
A number of Iyaate's mining fellows are here as well. Namikka is in good hands.
I'm so sorry. I didn't mean for you to get involved in this.
Erenville told me what happened, and you needn't worry about Namikka. If those bandits should find us, I'll kick up a fuss and see them driven off.
That bracelet meant everything to her, and those bastards wouldn't care even if they knew. Makes me sick.
But at least she's safe, and I know you'll set things right.
If the Dustwatch can't be bothered to do their jobs, they can piss off!
Alright, let's go and recover that bracelet.
While I have nothing but contempt for these bandits, as this involves a gift from Wuk Lamat, we must be mindful how our actions might reflect upon her.
I doubt Namikka would find joy in the return of said gift if lives were taken in the process.
If it comes to violence, I ask that you stop short of killing them. The rest, we can leave to the Dustwatch.
Well now, that makes me think you're strong. Really strong. Are you?
You saved the star!? That's a bold claim to make, but if true, that certainly speaks to your strength!
Aren't we humble now? But the matter-of-fact way you say it makes me think it's a tremendous understatement.
L-Lest you misunderstand, I'm not questioning your abilities. As a matter of fact, that silence is the sort of response I'd expect from a peerless warrior!
If your curiosity has been sated, then please indulge mine─is there anything you can tell us about these bandits?
Let's see...
Well, of late there's been talk about some unsavory types coming and going from Tonatenyawi to the southwest.
Is that the old mining town that was abandoned?
That's the one. Now that ceruleum extraction is big business, no one wants to waste their time picking at the dried-up veins there.
Sounds like a perfect lair for bandits─not to mention that the one with the bracelet fled in that direction.
So you'll be investigating the place? I can let the Dustwatch know, if you like.
No, not yet. It would be best if we went alone.
There's something I'd like to ascertain. If you've no objections?
Right then, let's be off.
You find those bandits and you beat 'em bloody, you hear?
If you sense trouble, promise me you'll put yourself first.
It seems the bandits have claimed this place for themselves.
They've made no attempt to conceal their presence. How can the Dustwatch not have noticed by now?
A question for another time. First, we must find the bracelet.
I don't see the bandit who had it. Perhaps they're in one of the buildings.
Ramshackle as they are, it should prove a simple thing to eavesdrop on anyone inside.
If you would go and have a look about, I'll keep watch for trouble.
The bandits who took the bracelet may be in this building. Have a listen and see what you can find out.
The bandits who took the bracelet may be in this building. Have a listen and see what you can find out.
The bandits who took the bracelet may be in this building. Have a listen and see what you can find out.
