......
......
We've come this far. Now Torgal will be our guide.
Such was the purpose of his creation, after all.
Ready, Torgal? Take me home.
<bark>
Don't mind me. Keep an eye on Torgal.
Feeling lost? Maybe we should head back and start over.
A brief fellowship, formed beneath the wings of the Phoenix... 'Tis worthy of a poem in itself.
...Leave? Some matter of heroic importance, I trust? Very well, we shall await your return at the spot where this expedition began.
Come, Torgal is eager to run.
<bark>
I am ever ready to wander!
<bark>
<bark>
Right, let's try this again.
One can be forgiven for putting a foot wrong when faced with the sorrow of parting. No matter, we simply begin once more from the beginning.
I'll be back soon, Jill...
I sense the end to this extraordinary tale is at hand.
<bark>
Is this it, boy?
The tale ends where it began.
Where you first found me?
Indeed.
I was baffled as to why this, of all places, would serve as a junction between our two worlds. But now I think I understand.
You do?
Some years ago, Eorzea was visited by a cataclysmic disaster known as the “Seventh Umbral Calamity.”
Yet even as fire and ruin threatened all we held dear, the world underwent a mystical renewal. 'Twas as if the star was reborn.
One theory attributes the miracle to a benevolent entity, claiming that the undying Phoenix flared into being to save us in our hour of direst need.
The Phoenix!?
The Burning Wall itself is a scar left by those events, its crystal ridges having erupted from the earth overnight. Some believe these monoliths of solidified flame to be proof of the Phoenix's deliverance.
The bond with your brother, the Phoenix of your world, may have been the connection which brought you to this sacred place in ours.
Drawn to the flame...
It seems our time together is at an end.
Thank you both for all you've done.
Always. No matter what fate awaits at journey's end...
And yours as well. You don't seem the type to stand still.
Come, Torgal. We have answers to seek, and Valisthea awaits.
And then he was gone.
I feel the stirrings of a ballad...
...But, nay. 'Twould be hubris to imagine I could capture Clive's story from so fleeting an excerpt.
That honor belongs to someone else─someone privileged to see his tale to its conclusion. Sadly, the power to peer into other worlds was not granted me by this day's miracles.
I wonder, however, if you might manage it, Forename.
Our little adventure is over. Set in motion as it was by a dream most cryptic, I must thank you for indulging my sudden and strange request.
As for your promised reward, I hope this is sufficient?
Torgal proved such a trustworthy guide that I thought to bind his likeness to a summoning whistle.
May his loyal spirit serve you well on your travels. Until we meet again!
