Lay down yer burdens, son,♪Come drain a pint with me,♪We'll have a grand ol' time,♪Find ye a lass or three...♪
Ye gonna say somethin', 'venturer, or just keep starin'?Eh? Ye want to know about the Company of Heroes?
Ahhh hells... Price of bleedin' fame... Can't a miller mill in peace no more!?
Still, seein' as ye've come all this way, I s'pose it wouldn't hurt to oblige ye. Consider yerself lucky, lass─ol' Trachtoum was the Company's best axeman. Now, what was it ye wanted to know?
Gah hah hah! So, ye want to hear the tale of how the Company of Heroes bested a primal, do ye?
Let me guess: ye mean that bastard Tidus, aye?
Oh, if only ye'd been there to see it!
'Twas a mighty struggle, like the legends of old!
Me an' the boys fought him for three days an' nights, we did!
The ground trembled with every step Tidus took, an' when he hit ye, girl, it felt like a cannonball to the gut. Uggghhh! Just like that!
Oi, what's that look for? I'm a godsdamned hero, I'll have you know! The people 'round here sing me praises! Don't tell me ye only care about learnin' the secret tactics we used to beat ol' Tidus...
Hmph! Well, too bad, 'cause now I'm not feelin' charitable. If yer so damn desperate, then why don't ye do me a favor an' kill those rats that've made a nest by the windmill just south of here? Aye, do that, then we'll talk!
Eh? So the beasties are dead, are they? Nice work, 'venturer!
Saved me the hassle of─ah, never mind.
Eh? So the beasties are dead, are they? Nice work, 'venturer!
Saved me the hassle of─ah, never mind.
...What? Ye still askin' about how we beat Tidus? I dunno, 'venturer...it was a pretty risky strategy, the kind only a veteran of ten score battles could rely upon.
I want to teach ye, I truly do! But unless ye prove ye have what it takes to face that fat bastard, I can't in good conscience tell you a damn thing!
At the very least, ye'd need to be capable of slayin', say, a goobbue...
Come to think of it, that ain't a bad idea. Them creatures have a taste for the flour milled here, so ye ought to have no trouble findin' one in the vicinity.
'Course, I ain't askin' ye to cut one down quick as a skilled axeman like meself!
Anyroad, why don't ye try headin' due west an' standin' lookout 'case a goobbue comes callin'? Slay it, an' I might consider tellin' ye more about ol' Tidus.
Eh? You again? Then that goobbue that was harassin' the millers is dead?
Didn't think ye had it in ye, 'venturer. Still, you took forever an' a day to get the job done. I'm still not sure if I should tell you our secrets...
So, uh...as I was sayin', I still don't know if ye've got what it takes to face Tidus. Maybe if ye slew a─
