<shudder> Never have I been so scared in my life... I'd died in an accident before, but it was nothing compared to this...
To be killed again, and again, and again... It was a living nightmare. And King Zoraal Ja was behind it, you say?
Since he suddenly appeared, he's done nothing good for us. He thinks only of war─ordered more soldiers be produced. And now he unleashes them on us...
He's no king of mine! He's a murderer, and someone needs to make him pay!
Zoraal Ja must answer for his crimes! The false king must be ripped from his throne!
You heading to the Backroom?
We've helped those we could in Solution Nine. We're now looking to send people to the other levels.
...
It seems things are somewhat under control. While Alisaie and the others are still out there...
I couldn't help but worry about Gulool Ja.
He hasn't uttered a word. And small wonder given his ordeal...
I'm going to talk to him. About everything.
Bright as he is, there's no use hiding it. He'd eventually find out, and it'd hurt him more.
Very well. Above all, he needs to know that he isn't alone.
I'll leave nothing out. Neither what's happened, nor what's still to come...
To make your own child suffer so... I cannot comprehend the heartlessness.
Are you all right, Gulool Ja?
Lots of people are dead because of my father, aren't they?
That's...
And Otis... He's gone too, isn't he?
I'm sorry.
My father is a bad man. That's why you're going to kill him, aren't you?
Oh, sweetheart... Look...
Forget it.
I don't care anymore.
Listen to me, Gulool Ja.
You're right. We're going to confront your father.
He invaded Tuliyollal and hurt my people. As Vow of Resolve, it's my duty to bring him to justice.
Don't you think of him as family anymore?
After the attack, I was filled with rage. I told myself over and over that he's no brother of mine.
But it isn't so simple. No matter what I feel or say, all those years I spent striving to live up to his example... They won't just disappear.
What's more, it's because we're family that we have to correct each other when someone goes astray.
That's why I must confront my brother. Like your grandfather did, even though it cost him his life.
But...Otis is gone now.
If my father was gone too...
Then I'd have no one...
What are you saying, Gulool Ja? Take a look around.
Ah...
You have us, Gulool Ja─all of us. We'll be with you, through thick and thin.
You're not alone. You'll never be alone again.
I'm sorry I didn't listen and followed you.
But...I wanted to stop my father. And to maybe understand why he did what he did.
They had been keeping a lot inside, both Gulool Ja and Wuk Lamat...
You should get some rest, Gulool Ja. You've been through a lot.
I do feel a bit sleepy...
There's a room in the back you can use. Could you take Gulool Ja there?
I will, thank you.
The things I would say to Zoraal Ja as a mother... But I'd better not get started.
Instead, let me thank you. We couldn't have gotten through this without you and yours.
Until the others return, you ought to take what rest you can as well. It isn't over yet, after all.
You could head...<buzzz>...prepare for...<buzzz> Otherwise feel free...<buzzz>...the Backroom.
A fuzzy image, you say? Is it still happening?
Well, it's an old worn thing. There's bound to be a few hitches.
It's nothing to worry about, though. We'll have a meeting to discuss our next move in a little while, so until then!
Had enough rest, have you? Then let's round up everyone!
During your confrontation with him, Zoraal Ja bade Wuk Lamat come to the tower's summit.
Problem is, the elevators have been locked down due to the state of emergency.
We've been working to lift the access restrictions, but frankly it's not looking promising.
Are there any other ways we can get to Zoraal Ja?
We believe so.
As you know, Solution Nine occupies Everkeep's ninth level.
The summit, meanwhile, is the twelfth.
The map appears to be cut off.
While the king and queen's residence is believed to be located there, the details are highly classified. Hence the lack of map data.
We do, however, have reliable intelligence concerning everything up to the eleventh level.
What is this place?
That is Origenics, the facility where souls are separated and refined for use.
The process begins at the base with the extraction of souls from regulators and fiends.
Those souls are then transported up to the aetheric separator, where they are cleansed of memories.
Finally, they are packed within soul cells for distribution.
Twelve forfend... They've recreated the process by which souls are broken down in the aetherial sea...
An affront to nature, I know, but ethical discussions must wait.
The salient point is that the facility extends vertically from the first to the eleventh level.
Now, if Zoraal Ja intends to strengthen himself with the people's souls, as we strongly suspect...
Then the facility will be operating to process and transport those souls directly to him─on the twelfth level!
So in order to reach Zoraal Ja, we make our way through Origenics!
Precisely.
As the facility sustains the Alexandrian way of life, security will be extremely tight.
But if you are willing to brave the route, we'll back you up as best we can. What say you?
It goes without saying that we're going!
<chuckle> I never had any doubt.
I'm coming too. You'll need guidance on-site, and this body makes me best suited.
...Hold it. Before you set off, I have to ask.
All this time, you've known that Sphene is an Endless, haven't you?
Yes, we have.
Why didn't you tell us?
Honestly...it didn't seem relevant to the matters at hand? More complicated to explain than it was worth, and a distraction from our efforts to deal with Zoraal Ja.
Speaking of which, we should get moving. Those who are sallying forth, we gather in front of the tower!
We can count on you to provide support from here, yes?
...Of course.
We'll provide all the support we can. Please be careful out there.
I'm glad me weapons were of use in the battle. But at the same time, I wish we didn't have need fer 'em...
Now where were those weapon blueprints?
I can't believe this is happening...
We can't afford to mope...
I need to talk to you about... Never mind. It can wait.
Lest you wonder, I have no objections to remaining here. Someone needs to keep those in Tuliyollal informed.
Best of luck to you.
Let's keep our minds on the mission for now. Other matters can wait.
The summit of Everkeep... Finally, we shall see what the clouds conceal.
I'm coming too, of course. This is what I've worked so hard to be a part of.
Zoraal Ja is no king. Not anymore. For the sake of Tuliyollal─of the world─we must put an end to his madness.
I've spoken with Alphinaud. Apparently, the dragons came to Tuliyollal's aid!
All present and accounted for? Excellent.
We make for the summit in one push. This will be a grueling climb, so see to it you spare no preparation.
The entrance to Origenics is located on the back of Everkeep.
We can reach it by the water. Come, we head to the pier at the driftdowns!
