W-We need not fret overmuch─there are yet several layers of arcane protection that shield the city from invasion. Mother will be fine...
'Twould seem the heretics struck the first─and most telling─blow against Ishgard...
Scions! We expected you at Camp Dragonhead!
My apologies. We chanced to hear that there had been trouble at the gates, and thought it prudent to investigate the cause.
Then you have learned of the heretics' treachery. Lady Iceheart led a force of her followers against our defenders, and came close enough to dispel the first of our wards.
But let us speak more of this back at the camp. Ser Aymeric awaits you...
...Lady Iceheart has grown bold indeed if she would risk direct action against the city. Come, let us do as we were bid, and return to Camp Dragonhead.
Lord Haurchefant will know where Ser Aymeric means to receive us.
'Tis reassuring indeed to behold the countenance of a friend when one's homeland teeters upon the very brink of disaster!
Though a single misstep could send us plunging into the abyss, your heroic presence stokes the flames of courage within my heart!
Ah, but you did not come to Dragonhead to listen to my prattling! The lord commander has arrived, and would treat with you in the intercessory.
Greetings, madam. I shall show you in at once.
I thank you for coming with such haste...and apologize for my absence. Suffice it to say, Lady Iceheart and her heretics have much to answer for...
Yes...we are but recently returned from the Gates of Judgement ourselves. Given the circumstances, we quite understand if you would prefer to postpone our appointed audience.
On the contrary, Master Alphinaud─I think it more important than ever that this meeting take place. Rest assured, I shall return to my post on Ishgard's walls the moment our business is concluded.
Before we move on to the subject of reinforcements, however, I would introduce you to a close friend and stalwart ally. Estinien!
May I present to you Ishgard's Azure Dragoon.
An impressive title...though I confess, I know precious little of the order of dragoons.
They are formidable warriors all. Yet even among such masters of the lance, Estinien is without equal.
He, out of all the warriors of Ishgard, was chosen to wield the power of dragons, and may thus contend with any Dravanian.
