<cough> <splutter> Mercy... Mercy, I beg you...
Breathe easy, sir. No harm will come to you here.
The poor man is shivering. Pray keep an eye on him while I get a fire going.
I thought for certain I was d-dead. How am I ever to repay this kindness...?
We'll settle for the tale behind your current predicament. Why don't you begin by telling us your name?
Tristol. I was invited into Eulmore to work as an artist...
A wealthy couple took me in to paint pictures for them, but when my style proved contrary to their taste, they just as quickly turfed me out onto the street.
I was left penniless and patronless─a grave sin in Lord Vauthry's city.
Within days, they had brought me before the man himself, and he asked me what I meant to do. Dejected as I was, I told him that I wished to leave...
Little did I know how soon he would grant me my wish! They flung me over the balustrade into the godsdamned ocean!
From up there!? How were you not dashed to pieces!?
Don't ask me. Luck, I suppose. Though if you hadn't found me when you did, it wouldn't have counted for much.
Monstrous... And the citizens condone such barbaric punishment!?
Oh, without a second thought. When Lord Vauthry passes judgment, no one so much as blinks, let alone argues.
In Eulmore, his word is law.
The more I hear about Eulmore, the more determined I am to see what waits within its walls.
I shall bend all my thoughts toward securing another way into the city. There must be something we can do...
But first, we should convey Tristol to the shelter of the village. Fire or no fire, he needs to be out of this chilly coastal air.
A way into the city...?
Pray accept my deepest gratitude. I owe you both my life.
And...if you'll permit me, I would assist you in your attempt to enter Eulmore─insofar as I am able, at any rate.
To be frank, the thought of sending my saviors into that awful place makes me sick to the stomach─but since it's plain you've set your minds on it...you should take this.
It's my favorite paintbrush.
The Eulmoran elite are never satisfied until they get exactly what they want, and if I'm not mistaken, the couple I mentioned will be looking for someone to replace me. If you make a show of owning such a well-used brush, you may be able to convince people you have a talent for painting.
Are you certain? This is your livelihood. We cannot deprive you of such a treasured possession...
I give it gladly after all you've done for me. Besides, I can't─ I...don't think I have the heart to paint anymore.
As to what I'll do instead...I honestly haven't decided. But I shan't stay long in this place─not with that city brooding over me. Nay, I'll move on to new lands and a new profession. And I'll keep you in my prayers from now until my dying day.
They say kindness is its own reward, but Tristol has repaid us with a gift as timely as it was unexpected.
We will, however, need to act upon his advice before another painter steps in to fill the vacancy. Thankfully, I do have some modest skill with a brush. Nothing approaching that of a true artist, of course, but enough to play the role, I would hope.
As for you... Hmmm... Well...if you don't mind taking a subordinate role, mayhap you could pose as my assistant?
Then it is settled! All we need do now is return to Gatetown, and await the next appearance of those vile jesters.
Here they come...
Ladies and gentlemen! Your attention once more! What a day it's been for the folks at our door!
We've welcomed a peddler who made pearls from a plum, and now we've a place for a painter of aplomb.
So come along and don't be slow! It's time to let your colors show!
I can paint. Portraits, at least. Landscapes and still lifes are so rarely commissioned these days...
Oho, I thought I spied some new faces in the crowd. What fortune that you should feel at ease around an easel!
What proof have you of your prowess? Any masterpieces on your person?
Sadly not. Everything I paint is soon sold. Such is the life of a working artist.
I have only my brush to testify for me─though you will note that it has seen no small amount of service.
Aha, hoho, hm hm. Flecks of paint, both old and new, a tool much loved and much used.
Not a prop to be conjured on the hop! Very well! Come with us, and we'll put those talents to the test!
And who is this hanger-on? Well-wisher or parasite?
Why, this is my assistant. She whose unfailing support allows my art to flourish. I will go with her or not at all!
Parasite, then. We shall leave her fate in the hands of your new employer─it matters not a whit to us.
And having filled our latest vacant space, we retire to Eulmore's sweet embrace!
