It seems the clever one did for my fellow warden after all. I knew it was a bad idea to go in the cell...
As much as one might expect the unexpected, I doubt any of us could have foreseen this turn of events.
She seems different from other voidsent─at least those we've met. And the change we witnessed, I suspect, is due to your crystal purging the excess Darkness in her.
Even so, she still harbors a great deal of Darkness. I'm very keen to hear what she can tell us─about herself and about her world.
While the language of this world is similar to ours, it is her covenant with Zenos that should ensure we can understand one another.
The magick for summoning voidsent also facilitates communication, you see. Without this component, a mage would struggle to make his mind known to his servant.
So, I doubt you came to the dungeon by pure chance. What is it that you're after?
We were looking for a voidsent with whom we could converse, in the course of which we learned of you.
We are visitors to this world, and know little and less of its workings and ways.
We would be grateful if you could tell us about it. About yourself.
So it's information you seek.
What do you offer for it?
...I beg your pardon?
Voidsent do not give unless we stand to gain.
If you desire something, you pay the price. That is the sole rule in this world you call the void.
That makes sense. Pray forgive our ignorance.
But what would be acceptable as payment? I suspect that such coin as we carry has no value here.
Voidsent crave one thing alone: aether.
In return for information, I offer you mine. Just not all of it, mind you. I still have need of my life.
Very well. I will tell you no more than you can afford to pay.
Then we have a bargain.
If we're to talk about the void, let us do so outside. Come with me.
You needn't worry for me. My life force is a small price to pay for her knowledge, and I will recover it quickly enough once we've returned home.
We cannot allow Y'shtola to bear the burden alone. When next the opportunity arises, I will offer my own aether.
Their “one rule” is no different from that of many in our own world.
It's those like Alphinaud who are a rare breed.
This is where I belong. My home. This endless darkness you call the void...
There was once light here, and it shone its warmth upon creation. The lands were green and the seas were blue. Life flourished.
Before the war. The Contramemoria.
It must have been a terrible war indeed...
It shattered the balance, causing Darkness to engulf the world.
All life was transformed into monstrosities─voidsent.
We are the natural order now.
As Light begat sin eaters, Darkness begat voidsent.
The sun was driven from the sky as fleeting day yielded to endless night. In time, even land and sea lost their distinction.
And though the spark of reason had died in us, driven by memory's shadow, we formed factions and carved out domains.
This castle, for instance. Its erstwhile lord must have abided in such a place once upon a time.
If I may... The Darkness in you is too much for any man to harbor; to my eyes, you are indeed a voidsent.
Yet your knowledge of the past and your demeanor mark you apart from your brethren.
You are different, that much is plain. But in what way, I am unsure.
As you say, I am voidsent. But only in part.
The Darkness touched my mother when the war had only just begun. When I was still in the womb.
As a child, I looked like any other. But Darkness coursed through me, and I ceased to age when I'd become a woman grown.
But that was then, and now...I may as well be one in full.
I prey on the weak and serve the strong. I live to survive. Nothing more.
Forgive me, 'twas not my intent to pry...
I realize, too, that I've neglected to ask your name.
As we say “mortal,” you may call me “voidsent.”
That is liable to cause confusion. If you are not averse, we would address you by your true name.
Then call me what you will. I care not.
How about...“Zero”?
Meaning “nothing”? A name as fitting as any.
No, not “nothing,” but rather a “beginning.” For it remains to be seen what you will become to us.
As I said, I care not. Zero, then.
Partnership...? Are you saying you wish to strike a bargain?
A name is a string of sounds. Its meaning has no bearing on my nature.
Well, Zero. While there is no end to the questions we could ask, 'tis only fair that we tell you our purpose in coming here.
We are searching for a dragon, one who came to your world long ago.
A dragon?
Yes. Azdaja is her name, and she is my sister. If you have any knowledge of her, I beg you share it with us.
Hissssss...
Did you say something?
No...
I thought I heard a voice as well. The keening of voidsent, perhaps...
No one else seems to be nearby. Perhaps it was just a trick of the wind...
If naught is out of the ordinary, I should like to hear more from Zero. I can't imagine there are many part voidsent like her who remember the world as it was.
We may have subdued the voidsent here, but I doubt they'll remain that way. Remain vigilant.
“Beginning”... A curious notion in a world where all has come to an end.
I must say, we are rather exposed here.
Perhaps we should continue the conversation within the castle.
The throne room is defensible, given its few points of ingress. Let us head back there.
Moving wasn't part of the bargain. I'll comply, but I expect my payment promptly.
You shall have it as soon as we've arrived.
I will see to the payment, and then we may ask Zero what she knows about Azdaja.
All appears unchanged here.
I feel eyes on us. Stay alert.
This place is as good as any. Let me have the aether now.
Very well.
Hissssss...
You're mine!
Ahhh, that I should miss my mark...
That fiend again? But we struck it down─watched it die!
Fools. Death doesn't exissst in this world. And I─I am free to return whensoever I please.
Death doesn't exist...?
Of course. In the First, the power of Light─of passivity─prevents life from emerging in the Empty.
But in the Thirteenth, the power of Darkness─of activity─prevents life from finding rest, even should soul be separated from flesh.
So unless one's essence is absorbed by another, 'tis possible to return again and again...
Hm... Your aether─it is reminissscent of that creature's. Ahhh, my mouth waters at the memory...
What?
I must devour you too. Yes, I must!
Ye drifting souls, by my power be reborn!
If it's another death they want, I say we give it to them.
If you could lend us a hand, we'd be much obliged.
That you would. But you already owe me a debt, and until you make good on it, I won't lift a finger.
We'll speak after you have won. But know that if you lose, I'll help myself to your aether.
That a bothersome duty should deliver to me this lavish feassst...
Come, struggle with all your might! It will make you that much richer and tastier!
Every soul in this domain ssserves me now.
Come, feassst upon their flesh!
The castle answers his call...
We'd do well to break up this feast quickly.
Then let's see these guests on their way.
Behold the power of the archfiend of earth!
He means to resurrect them again!
Hmph, let them come.
Hmph, let them come.
A troublesome foe...
He hastens their regeneration!
We are deathlessssss.
You cannot defeat that which cannot die!
Get clear!
Struggle and slaughter all you like!
This bodes ill...
This bodes ill...
Our foe has too great an advantage...
We need to drag him out of this damnable feast.
Quickly, stand together!
There's no end in sight...
A retreat may be in order.
A retreat may be in order.
When will you learn? No matter what you do, you cannot hope to win.
You never know until you try, and I'm always happy to experiment.
Zero─is there no way to stop them from coming back?
There is. But I have no reason to share it with you.
You know, Zero. You do owe us for one thing.
Your name.
You'll have your promised aether, but we are owed compensation for your name.
A name for which I did not ask...
But that I nevertheless did accept.
They've been crystallized!
Well now, that's quite the trick.
Satisfied?
Completely.
Come, my friends. With Zero's aid, we can defeat him!
What is this!? What have you done!?
Now that I think on it, you owe me a debt as well.
You may have missed your mark...but I won't miss mine.
However incurred, a debt is a debt.
I will repay it here and now.
She can turn voidsent into crystal...
What is this power?
You will tremble before my true ssstrength!
Go forth and smite my foes!
Attend to the minions first.
Begone.
Begone.
More... I need more servants...
That's far enough.
That's far enough.
Got you!
Trickery will not save you!
Prove your loyalty to me!
Reinforcements...
This will hurt.
This will hurt.
Hm, impressive.
Pathetic! Useless!
Enough! Enough!
Ugh!
We cannot win without Zero. We must help her!
Zero needs our help!
Another debt to repay...
Hmph. If I must deal with you first...
I'll kill you all myself!
Finally getting serious, are we?
Very well, let us return the favor!
This place will be your grave!
This magick... We must stop him now!
Everyone, to me!
Everyone, to me!
Give it everything you've got!
No... I cannot─will not─lose!
Fools! Do not think you have defeated me! I will return, again and again!
What? My flesh... Why won't it heal? What is the meaning of thisss!?
To seal aether in crystal...
Memoria!? But how? How can you have this power?
Death has no place in this world. We are beyond it...and yet...
Ah, Lord Golbez! You have sent me to my doom!
Curse you and your wretched flattery, and this abominable fate!
You are well come, seekers of might.
I, Golbez, have called you four hither...
I who would see us triumph in the coming crusade...
That I may entrust you with command of our armies.
Yes, yes, but what of the promised gift?
In exchange for our loyalty, we are to feast on the finest aether.
And so you shall. For if you are to serve me, you must be strong.
Then honor the pact, and pray we are not disappointed.
Very well. Behold.
The fiery wings, the savage horns...it pulses with life! Such vibrant aether!
This magnificent creature could only come from beyond the veil.
Indeed. Feast, my friends. Feast, and arise as my four archfiends!
As they are now, they can consume but a fraction of the dragon's aether.
Just as well. The creature may yet serve other ends.
Are you all right?
The voidsent's essence remains.
But it has been sealed away─transformed into crystal.
“Memoria,” Scarmiglione called them.
I take it they are connected to the war of which you spoke.
Aye─their use was central to the Contramemoria, hence its name.
And to my knowledge, the transformation is permanent.
I see. We thank you for coming to our aid.
I repaid a debt, and in doing so ensured that I receive my own due compensation. Which I shall have now.
Yes, yes. I still have work to do, so I would thank you not to get carried away.
Aether as the coin of choice. I appreciate the simplicity.
That makes us even, I trust.
Right, then─when you picked up the crystal, you experienced a vision, did you not?
A dragon resembling a great wyrm? I dare to hope that it was Azdaja...
Even as it pains me to think she has been made to suffer.
For the ambitions of this Golbez...
We've been given much to consider. Let us a take a moment to review what we know.
We've vanquished one of Golbez's archfiends, but three remain. As troublesome as this one, I expect.
If Golbez has Azdaja at his mercy, then we must find him. Hopefully Zero has knowledge that will aid us in our search...
There is nothing like the aether of a living mortal. I haven't felt so satisfied since my return.
In light of our recent experiences, I expect we all have questions. I trust Zero can answer some few of them.
We should still be owed at least that much, I daresay.
From memoria to Golbez and his archfiends, we have more questions now than answers. But that is a sign that we are making progress.
Hmm... Forename, you've come to the Thirteenth before, yes? You fought voidsent here.
But clearly you didn't know they could regenerate, else you would have shared that detail beforehand.
I doubt not that they did. There must be a reason why the ones you defeated did not return, in contravention of the natural order.
Do you remember aught out of the ordinary? A sealing magick like Zero's, perhaps?
From what I know of your foray, I can hardly blame you.
Perhaps they returned after you left. But if they didn't, there must be a reason why.
There are circumstances in which we're unable to return. If you like, I can tell you about this.
Please do.
The more you devour, the more powerful you grow. But in the process, your essence is blended with those of your prey.
If you were to lose your flesh, the souls you had come to harbor may break free and coalesce into distinct voidsent once more.
And before you yourself return, your own soul might be devoured by your enemies or your erstwhile prey. A fate more likely for stronger beings, who require more time to regenerate.
However, even assuming you survive the process, it's highly uncommon to return as you were.
Yet despite his greater strength, Scarmiglione managed to resurrect rather swiftly. Are there others capable of the same?
Not that I'm aware of. His attachment to his flesh must've been unique for him to develop such an ability.
I believe we understand the fundamentals of rebirth now.
If I may, I would ask you about your power. Will you tell us about it?
What you saw should speak for itself. I can bind the aether of the soul in crystal.
Many wielded this power during the Contramemoria, but I'm the only one left.
How does one come to wield memoria? And what happened to your peers?
Hm, I've never thought about that... I do know, though, that voidsent can't use the power. I assume I can because I'm mortal in part.
...I see.
Zero, I wish to ask you about the man called Golbez.
He may well have my sister in his clutches. Is there aught you can tell us of him?
The name sounds vaguely familiar, though I can't say how I know it.
If he is powerful, however, someone in the castle may have heard of him.
Then we must try talking to the other voidsent again!
Let us entrust the task to Forename. Her Echo will help facilitate communication.
More importantly, she should be able to maintain her composure better than a concerned sibling.
That, I cannot deny...
Forgive me, but will you not ask about Golbez in my stead? On the terraces to begin with, perhaps.
Thank you. We shall remain here and discuss what other avenues we might pursue in the meantime.
According to your vision, Golbez recruited his champions and raised an army by offering a dragon's aether in exchange.
Whatever his crusade, 'tis unconscionable to use a dragon's life force as fodder. He will answer for his deeds.
I know what it feels like to have my essence blended with that of another.
Yet tumultuous though it was, it was only one wyrm's soul. To be bound to scores of others over thousands of years sounds horrible.
Scarmiglione, too, appeared surprised by Zero's power. As she says, it must be a lost art.
This makes her invaluable to our cause─far more than someone who can simply communicate.
So with this “Echo” of yours, you can see into the past? Interesting.
Those memories may as well be all that remains of it, though. Everything and everyone was warped by Darkness. However storied it may appear, this castle is simply the product of its mistress's mind.
So the clever one hadn't been eaten? If no one wants it, then perhaps...
Golbez? Of course I know of him. Only a fool without ears wouldn't.
His archfiends lead armies to ravage and conquer. They devour those they deem useless. Those who can't fight.
If you don't want to be eaten, then you had better flee. Though soon there will be nowhere to run...
If you don't want to be eaten, then you had better flee. Though soon there will be nowhere to run...
Obey or be eaten. Obey but eventually be eaten anyway. I don't want to live like that...
If the one who devoured her dies, perhaps the mistress will return. Then I may bask in her gaze again...
G-Golbez, you say!? My mistress spoke of him!
He commands the archfiends! They are very powerful and have conquered many domains!
The mistress bade us defend the castle from them. Yes, yes, she did!
The mistress bade us defend the castle from them. Yes, yes, she did!
I'll defend the castle from the archfiends. And when the mistress returns, perhaps she'll favor me with a long gaze...
Ugh, the tasty one returns to tempt me. I mustn't eat you, I mustn't eat you...
...Golbez? I know of him from those I've eaten.
He has minions. And those minions have minions. No one ever sees him.
He has minions. And those minions have minions. No one ever sees him.
Golbez must be strong. Very strong. If I were you, I wouldn't try to eat him.
Oh, you've finished already? Or did we get carried away talking...
There's no easy way to mark the passage of time in this world. Nor do I imagine such things concern voidsent.
It would take considerable mental fortitude to still care after millennia in this endless night.
No trouble on your end either? Good.
I daresay Scarmiglione's fate served as sufficient warning. Let's hope that those elsewhere have the same sense.
Is there no end to their questions? <sigh> I should've demanded more aether...
Welcome back, Forename. Were you able to learn aught of value?
So countless voidsent answer to the archfiends, who in turn answer to Golbez─as your vision did suggest.
Scarmiglione's aggression is also consistent with the claims that the archfiends conquer other domains.
The question is, how do we reach Golbez if he surrounds himself with armies of minions?
We could target his other archfiends...or perhaps those who have fled his service. Either may yield useful information.
That said, we can't do much while we're stuck on this isle.
Zero, I would ask a favor of you.
I am determined to save my sister Azdaja. If there is even a faint possibility that Golbez has her, then I must find him.
To that end, I want you to lend us your strength and knowledge. Will you accompany us on our quest?
Forgotten the way of my world already? If you want help, offer payment.
None here will aid you out of the kindness of their hearts. Any who claim otherwise are liars and betrayers.
Or is this less a request and more a threat? If I refuse, will you force me to serve?
Protection? I have no need of such.
I was a prisoner, yes, but only because I couldn't be bothered to resist. I could have easily broken free had I desired to do so.
If you're truly such an aimless creature, then you could do worse than to join us. You needn't expend as much energy to defend yourself as you would alone.
Trying to be clever, are you? But even if you had a point, your protection isn't enough to persuade me.
I have no purpose. Why would I desire anything?
That's why I didn't bother to resist when the ones here fell upon me. What matters in a world that's already dead?
By that logic, you've no reason to refuse our requests. The payment need but be to your satisfaction, correct?
<sigh> Did I not already say as much from the start?
Very well, Zero. I propose you travel with us, and whenever you perform a deed that requires payment, we will provide it in aether.
That's all you had to say. Everything else was superfluous.
Fair point. Where to now?
Either a place the archfiends may strike next, or where refugees and deserters may seek sanctuary...
I know the latter. I'll take you there.
I assume you also know how we can get off this isle?
I was brought here on a mount. We can leave the same way.
Now that you mention it, I did notice some flying creatures near the terraces.
Given our numbers, we'll need a large one. But regardless of size, all can be won over with aether.
Excellent. Let us go and find our mount at once.
