Their aether will make me strong!
We have her now!
I sense something sinister in the air...
Trapped in my own domain... No, I don't want to be eaten!
Ssso the gate did open again. And delivered the most mouthwatering morselsss...
I am Scarmiglione—archfiend Of earth, and first of Golbez's circle of four!
Sssuch pleasure I will take in delivering you unto your graves!
It seems he wants to devour us too.
Hissssss... Your aether is mine!
He will find us unappetizing!
Breathe deep of your deathsss!
Breathe deep of your deathsss!
You must die!
My blade thirstsss for blood!
Protect me, my minions!
Protect me, my minions!
I give you a taste of true dessspair!
Such overwhelming power!
Brace yourselves!
Stubborn mortals. I have not finished with you yet!
Come, fill your lungs!
No... I will not be defeated by you!
Urrrgh... My flesssh...
Who was that voidsent...?
Is that it?
That was a fearsome foe.
This Scarmiglione─he knew the gate had opened.
And not for the first time. He and his brethren must keep watch over the portal.
As we do ours. But to unflinchingly consume a fellow voidsent...
Like men, perhaps they form factions and fight amongst themselves.
The question is, what will the minions do?
Your mistress is no more, and the one who consumed her we slew in turn. Do you still mean to try us?
I expect some voidsent are more intelligent than others. Perhaps these ones simply do not understand our words.
Hmph. Even beasts ought to understand strength.
There is much we do not know about voidsent. If we are to survive their world, 'twould be wise to learn their ways.
Sage advice, my friend. 'Tis reassuring to have one so experienced with us.
If that is your preferred approach, then very well, I shall defer to your adventurer's intuition.
I am here, Sister. Finally here. And I will find you─I swear it...
I never dreamed I would come this far. I can't thank you all enough for your cooperation.
It seems the minions are keeping their distance for now. Let's carry on.
This castle should serve as a base of operations for now.
Ere we set our sights elsewhere, let's see what there is to learn here.
Wherever I turn, there's Darkness as far as I can perceive; the only source of Light here is ourselves. The opposite was true in the First.
It seems the minions are content to gawp for now. Let's carry on.
The warding scale exhibits no change. It should be safe to remain here and begin our search.
But whither now? I would sense Azdaja were she remotely near, but there is nothing...
Might you not call to her? Let her know that you have come.
Alas, this vessel is not capable of calling across vast distances. For that, I require my true form.
And even were it possible, a dragon's call is borne upon aether. 'Tis liable to draw more voidsent to us.
I see...
In any case, there's little exploration to be done while we are confined to this isolated isle.
I propose we begin by learning what we can from the castle's occupants. An understanding of their ways may prove useful to our cause.
Very well. Let's hope a few of them are capable of speech.
Let all remain vigilant while we go about our inquiries. We reconvene afterwards.
This one does naught but stare...
Some seem willing enough to converse. Whether they have the ability to do so is another matter...
Like the prevailing tongue in Norvrandt, the language of this world bears a resemblance to our own. It may be assumed that they share a common ancestor.
