This won't do. The wind will go right through it. And me without my needle and sinew...
Oh, these are precisely what I needed! I should be able to patch up the covering now.
Given how often we pack up and reassemble our tents, they're bound to get the occasional tear. Fortunately, the rroneek hide they're made of is durable enough that we generally needn't worry.
Rroneek hide's sturdiness makes it an excellent material for clothing and shoes, as well. Of all the many gifts our hhetso bestow, it's the most versatile. I don't know how we'd get along without it!
You smell of the grass and the wind...
...Which is a good thing, I promise. You could nearly be mistaken for one of us─or at least an adventurous Tonawawta!
...Which is a good thing, I promise. You could nearly be mistaken for one of us─if a bit on the lean side!
...Which is a good thing, I promise. You could nearly be mistaken for one of us─if a bit on the short side!
...Which is a good thing, I promise. You could nearly be mistaken for one of us─you even look the part!
...Which is a good thing, I promise. You could nearly be mistaken for one of us─and with the brawn of a rroneek, to boot!
...Which is a good thing, I promise. You could nearly be mistaken for one of us─and with the horns of a rroneek, to boot!
...Which is a good thing, I promise. You could nearly be mistaken for one of us─if a bit on the furry side!
...Which is a good thing, I promise. You could nearly be mistaken for one of us─or at least an adventurous Shetona!
I have to wonder how Vow Koana is getting on. I assumed he would be reluctant to get his hands dirty, but it seems his wish to understand us was sincere...
Ah, there he is now!
Apologies for my tardiness. I was tasked with grazing the rroneek, and ended up rather far afield.
I found myself wandering hither and thither at my companion's inclination. To force us back to the trail seemed...inappropriate.
But how was your own work? Have you anything to share?
Yes, I feel the truth of this myself. While I was hesitant to leave my fate to the whims of the hhetso rather than tread man-made paths, I arrived where I was meant to be all the same.
Indeed. The rroneek provide for the Hhetsarro, and in turn the Hhetsarro are good to the rroneek. Just as family should be.
Mine is not the only way─though at times I lack the experience to know otherwise. My inability to conceive of how a decision might be right does not mean that it is wrong...
My parents had a duty to the rroneek, as they did to me. And so I wonder if their leaving me behind was not so selfish an act as I once believed.
I have no way to know, of course...and regardless, this has no bearing on our present concerns. We are here in service of the people of Tural, after all.
Nevertheless... I thank you for helping me find deeper meaning in what we've done today.
And I will endeavor to remain curious─especially where the hhetso are concerned.
I'm glad to hear that, Vow Koana. You're welcome among our herd any time.
It seems Vow Koana has come to an understanding with the hhetso after all.
I expect Vow Wuk Lamat and Erenville will be back soon as well...
Koana! How did it go?
I believe I finally understand the significance of the hhetso.
They nourish the Hhetsarro as they grow, and provide warmth and companionship in a harsh and unpredictable world...
They are the equal of any man, not beasts to be tamed.
Moreover, rroneek are sensitive. Though we may treat their injuries or brush their coats to keep them hale, they must ever be free to follow their instincts and seek lands where they might thrive.
The Hhetsarro would never cage them, and neither should we. To control their migratory patterns or capture those who wander too close to the tracks is out of the question...
Then it is particularly important to advance our original line of inquiry. Fortunately, we were able to visit the rroneek's once-favored grazing grounds.
As we were told, the grass looks fine. But the place is too quiet. It's not just the rroneek─even the birds and field mice have fled. We did encounter one pack of ceratoraptors, but they looked to be passing through in a hurry.
Typically, that sort of behavior in the fauna would be associated with natural disasters. Earthquakes, landslides, and the like.
Though the Hhetsarro would have surely put two and two together were the cause geological, I measured the area's aether to be certain. There was indeed nothing to suggest recent environmental disruption, but I did notice one anomaly.
A strong aetheric signature to the east. Moving across the plain, albeit slowly.
And a powerful one, like as not. A predator, given the local fauna's behavior.
Given where we are... I believe we are dealing with a powerful beast. A predator, perhaps, given the local fauna's behavior.
One of the raptors we saw looked like it had a bite taken out of its tail. By something with very large fangs.
It couldn't be...a tturuhhetso?
Tturuhhetso?
“Rroneek reaver,” in the common tongue. Our people have several names for such creatures. “Fangs that steal hhetso in the night” is another evocative one.
Rroneek can fend off many predators with their horns, but not the tturuhhetso. Their scales are tough as adamant, and neither horn nor arrow can pierce them.
A well-toothed carnivore with an unusually tough hide... I cannot recall any such fauna in this region.
They usually roam the wilds in the northeast, and most herds keep well clear of them. I can't tell you why this one is so far from home and its pack both.
In any case, I believe the source of the rroneek's consternation is clear. As is our next move. We must drive this reaver away, that they might return to their grazing lands in peace.
Never fear─we will make certain that the beast threatens you no more.
We must protect the hhetso, but not at the cost of your lives. Please take care out there.
I am loath to risk inciting panic lest our fears be unfounded...but I will warn my people to take extra precautions.
A powerful creature behaving unusually... Left to its devices, it may well become a tural vidraal. We must attend to it ere that happens.
Those rroneek reavers must have a hefty set of teeth...but I'm not worried. We've fought worse.
The rroneek reaver is a clear threat to the local population. We cannot allow it to roam unchecked.
But it won't do for us to go running off in search of it without having made proper preparations. And if others returning from across the plain have spotted it, they may be able to inform us of its recent behavior and where it might be found.
