Oh... Can I help you?
...It is you who would help me? Is my anxiety truly so obvious?
A burden shared is a burden eased. Pray, tell us of thy troubles.
Those little fellows do look like good listeners...
I'm an engineer, you see. And what they say of the ship─that it's the sum of decades of Sharlayan ingenuity, that it's built with peerless Allagan technology─is all true, but...
I know─I know─that none of that's a guarantee.
We've never before launched a starfaring vessel─let alone flown it in the great expanse. All the tests we've run have been on the ground!
Only operational personnel and cargo will be aboard for the first voyage, but even so... If it fails us then, what can we do? And if it doesn't, it could fall apart on the next flight, or the one after that...
We've done everything we can to prevent that from happening, but it hardly matters. We thought the aetherburner's design was flawless, too, and look how that turned out...
Thou art familiar with these most daunting technologies, and thus dost thou hold the power to allay his fears.
Oh! I, er...I'm not sure about that, but, well...
Maybe you could tell me if there are any aspects of the ship's design that you're especially worried about?
Our ability to walk about and perform our tasks, for one. I've devised a means by which to employ Gravity─a spatiotemporal spell─to regulate the environment, but what if it's not strong enough? What if everyone floats away and begins crashing into things as soon as we've left the star?
Aha, gravitation! Maybe I can be of help after all!
Up there is not so different from down here, you see. The same rules apply, and if you consider them as part of one great big cosmos rather than separate places...
I suspect both parties shall find comfort in this conversation.
Yet if Thancred's tale be true, still others would benefit from insights born of experience.
Might I prevail upon the Loporrits to attend them?
An excellent idea, if I do say so myself! There is naught we'd like more than to ease the hearts of the fine people of Etheirys─and learn more about them while we're at it.
Full glad am I to hear it. Gather thy companions and bring them hither.
Forename, thou hast a gift for finding souls in need of succor.
Pray seek thee out the distressed and the apprehensive, and inform them that help is at hand.
I shall await them here, that I might introduce each to a suitable Loporrit.
Oh, I do so look forward to that. A place for every Loporrit, and every Loporrit in their place!
The Final Days doubtless weigh heavy upon the minds of many in Sharlayan Hamlet, pillars of the exodus as they are.
Pray, bring them hither.
Yes, precisely! However, it would also be prudent to have a redundant system in the event of failure...
Thank heavens I asked you!
