Uwaaah! ...Oh, forgive me, I thought another member of the Convocation had come. This is turning out to be an eventful day...
I understand there is a problem with one of the charybdis.
Yes, that's right.
As you know, the charybdis is based on a sea creature. Owing to adjustments to enhance its affinity to wind, it is capable of flight.
The specimens created from the concept could all fly without issue, but a problem arose in subsequent generations.
This third-generation creature was born with an aetheric balance leaning strongly towards water. Its aquatic origin reasserting itself, it would seem...
The result being its affinity to wind is diminished, and it cannot fly. No matter what we try, we can't get it to rise even the slightest bit.
For such change to manifest in so few generations... I fear they are too unstable. Flawed.
With your permission, I will revert the creatures, and recommend to the bureau that the concept be revised.
...With its aetheric balance leaning towards water, the charybdis would indeed struggle to manipulate wind.
Yet it is too early to conclude that it cannot fly. Having failed at first, it may simply have developed a fear.
I shall transform and fly with it, helping it to manipulate wind until it finds its wings.
What!? Y-You needn't go to such lengths...
You don't know? <sigh> But of course not...
Transformation is an art in which one manipulates a vast quantity of aether to construct another body around oneself.
In practice, this allows one to assume any conceivable form, and thereby transcend the limits of one's flesh.
Yet convenient though it may be, transforming in the presence of others is considered vainglorious in the extreme. As uncouth and unseemly as running about robeless. Shameful.
Am I to understand you make a habit of this?
N-Nothing of the sort. It's just that, when transformed, I can wield the wind and fly.
It may seem excessive, but what is our shame next to the lives of these creatures?
They deserve a chance, and we owe it to them to do all in our power!
Be that as it may...
Hmmm...
Yes, I believe I have a solution. Emet-Selch─may I trouble you to move that charybdis away from its fellows? Somewhere out of sight.
Meanwhile, I'd like the rest of you to help me prepare here.
What mischief are you scheming now?
No mischief, I assure you. I would but spare you the need to report to your colleagues that Hermes committed an indiscretion.
So have a little faith, and run along.
I trust you don't mind?
Hythlodaeus is a man of ideas. I wonder what he has thought up this time...
We must help the charybdis to fly. Or else they will all die!
Such bother when we could simply begin anew... But I shall defer to the chief overseer.
Emet-Selch is out of sight? Good. Let's speak of the plan.
It's a stroke of genius, really: we have Emet-Selch train the charybdis!
Aside from being able to fly untransformed, he can readily see aether currents.
And with his adept spellcraft, he can also employ suitable wind magicks to guide the creature along.
While he is indeed capable of all you described, it is not his duty. I am loath to trouble him with it.
Don't be! As I mentioned, it would also be for his own sake. With that settled, let's begin at once!
Forename─I want you to go to Emet-Selch. Tell him that you have a favor to ask.
He will be disinclined to cooperate at first, but you mustn't be discouraged. With our friend, the trick is to be unflaggingly persistent.
Off you go, now, and good luck!
The rest of us will be right behind you. We wouldn't think to miss the fun!
With apologies to Emet-Selch, but this may be the best approach. Let us work together to win him over!
I'll persist too!
M-Me...? Uh...perhaps it's best if I watched from afar...
Well? Are your preparations for the scheme that is clearly not a scheme complete?
I have a favor to ask
Oh no you don't! I'm not lifting a finger!
Ugh. I don't know what Hythlodaeus is up to, and I will not be made to know. I refuse!
Ugh. I don't know what Hythlodaeus is up to, and I will not be made to know. I refuse!
You may tell Hythlodaeus he can contrive another brilliant solution─one that doesn't involve me!
Please, Emet-Selch
No, no, no, you are not foisting this nonsense on me!
I'm given to understand you have the power to help the charybdis─and should be quite willing to do so.
And so I appeal to your better nature, most benevolent Emet-Selch. Please teach it to fly!
Or else Hermes will transform! Right now!
Now, now, there's no need to go quite that far. Altruism is its own reward, as I'm sure he would agree.
Oh would he now? And who contrived to put me in this position, pray tell?
Nothing so devious. I merely suggested a possible course of action.
Please, Emet-Selch! Please!
I did not come all this way to play nursemaid to your creations. I'd thank you to remember this favor...and let it be the last.
I will aid it once it has taken to the air. It falls to you to shepherd it skyward.
Well, let's relax and enjoy the spectacle, shall we?
You were wondering why Emet-Selch joined the Convocation.
Truth be told, he wasn't the first choice for the office. I was─on the strength of my ability to see aether.
But I declined the offer. For though my vision is exceptional, I am pedestrian in all other aspects. Worse, even.
Quite abysmal when it comes to manipulating aether, for example. Couldn't transform even if I had a mind to do so.
What good is the ability to perceive a problem if one cannot act to address it?
Emet-Selch has no such shortcomings. He excels in vision and manipulation both─the latter to an extraordinary degree.
If there is a mage more powerful, I do not know of them.
Thus did I recommend him for the office in my stead. And I wasn't the only one. Far from it.
Countless others vouched for his skill and character. People the world over, to whom he had previously lent a helping hand.
Oh, how surprised he was. Claimed he hadn't done anything remarkable for anyone. Modest to a fault.
He deserved every bit of acclaim he received. Yet he may well have gone unappreciated were it not for a mutual friend.
A singular soul who can't help but involve herself in the business of others. Where she walks, excitement is certain to follow.
Her antics irritate Emet-Selch to no end, but much of his grumbling stems from genuine concern.
When our friend calls, he never fails to answer and lend his talents.
And in the course of doing so, he himself came to be recognized and respected by those around him.
They are truly remarkable individuals, and I'm proud to call them friends.
To help them realize their dreams─this will be my greatest contribution to our world.
And when they have fulfilled their respective purposes...
So too shall I have fulfilled mine, and together we may return to the star.
Look at me, spilling my innermost secrets. I can't seem to help it with you.
I can only assume it is due to the color of your soul. I just don't understand how you can be so alike and yet so different.
Well done, my pet! Well done!
Ah yes, I daresay the charybdis will be fine hereon.
Why don't you go and signal to Emet-Selch. Let him know that his arduous task is at an end.
If I didn't know better, I'd say Emet-Selch is enjoying himself. Not that he'd ever deign to admit it.
It's flying... It's really flying, as if it were born to do so... Thank goodness...
Look, Forename! Look how well the charybdis flies!
Look, Forename! Look how well the charybdis flies!
It's flying... It's really flying, as if it were born to do so... Thank goodness...
I have no words to express my gratitude. Thanks to you, the charybdis has learned to fly.
And Forename and I could relax and have a pleasant chat.
I'm sure you did.
The creature needed some small assistance at first, but soon it was flying more or less on its own. I doubt you will need to repeat the lesson.
That was truly impressive!
I witnessed it all from afar─the charybdis flies!
Indeed. With this, we've proven that even a creature with skewed aetheric balance is capable of flight.
Though we helped it to achieve this, the charybdis is a herd animal. They may well aid their struggling kin in like fashion if and when the need arises.
Keeping this in mind, I bid you continue observing them.
If that is what you want...
But if I may say so, rather than hoping an idealistic possibility comes to pass, would it not be simpler to have the concept adjusted? That way, we could guarantee that anomalies such as this specimen are never born in the first place.
These creatures are already here. We will spare no effort in giving them a chance to survive.
As you wish, Chief. As you wish.
Hermes...
I'm fine. Don't worry.
Well, that concludes all of my present tasks.
Let us return to Anagnorisis for now.
Now you've seen what I do. Was it everything you were expecting...?
All the creations are happy. That makes me happy too!
I thoroughly enjoyed myself─at the end most of all!
...What? Want to apologize for forcing me to help, do you?
Save your breath. You didn't force me to do anything─I merely chose the most expeditious way to have done with an impediment to our business.
I'm tired. Leave me be.
Tell me, Forename. In the course of watching me, have you learned aught of value?
I see... If you told me what it is you seek, I would be able to better accommodate you.
Dynamis, you say? Curious that such an obscure phenomenon should be of interest to you.
If only my work were more interesting... Nevertheless, I'm still indebted to you for keeping Meteion company. If there is aught I might do, you need but ask.
