We'll fight too! For Tuliyollal!
Me too! Me too!
We're all together in this!
Thank you, everyone! Thank you!
We've already learned much about our foe, and we will continue to learn more. In time, we will have the means to make their warships fall from the sky.
When we join hands with our countrymen and our allies from afar, we're stronger than we dare to hope!
Together, let us show the enemy the might of Tuliyollal!
You are the beating heart of our nation. Each and every one of you!
Uncertain days lie ahead, but for now I ask you to persevere. To go about your lives as you always do.
Only then can we ensure we have the resources to see our nation through these trials.
And when the time comes, we will strike!
Tuliyollal will not fall! We will prevail, and peace and happiness will be ours again!
That was a rousing speech, was it not? Let us do our part to ensure that the Dawnservants can fulfill their promise to the people.
I'm glad to see so many people came. I wasn't sure how many I had won over, so I decided to keep at it.
...She did well.
It is inspiring to see such diverse peoples rally as one.
The people of Tural have come together for this fight. We must endeavor not to fail them.
Listening to Wuk Lamat and Koana, I was reminded of my time in the First.
While the Exarch was no king, I often found myself speaking before the people of the Crystarium in like manner. And through their deeds, they answered me.
The people of Tural, too, will rise to occasion. This I can tell.
I look forward to the day when peace is restored to Tural. There is so much I wish to see.
Well, the hour of departure is at hand.
Those of us remaining here shall accompany you part of the way.
I, for one, would like to see the dome firsthand.
We set forth as soon as everyone is ready. I will inform Wuk Lamat that─
There you all are!
Ah, Lamaty'i!
We were just planning to call on you. Are you ready to leave?
I am. Seeing the people come together as one, knowing they haven't given up hope, it was all the encouragement I could ask for.
Right then, let's get going! We leave from the Xak Tural skygate!
Koana and Ketenramm will continue to manage affairs at the palace. Once I've inspected the dome, I will join them to make preparations against further incursions.
The dome appears to lie well beyond Shaaloani. A good thing we have Erenville to guide us.
Yyasulani isn't exactly a short distance from Shaaloani. If the train isn't operating, we'll need to consider other means of travel.
Even from afar, I can sense something isn't right about that dome.
We should have everything we need for the expedition, from food to medicine to gear. It's quite amazing how much you can fit in Erenville's rucksack!
As Lamaty'i says, let's stay vigilant.
Everyone's here? Good.
This is it, my friends. We go to strike down Zoraal Ja and secure peace for Tuliyollal.
We'll be passing through Shaaloani, where there have been reports of enemy movement, so stay sharp.
The Landsguard had told me about them. They emerged from the dome in quick succession and took to looming overhead.
A display of force, like the vessels in Tuliyollal.
Indeed. And while they haven't taken any aggressive actions, I want to see how things are in the area before moving on.
We'll be passing a few settlements on the way to Shaaloani Station. It's the perfect opportunity to look around.
In that case, Forename and I know a few locals who can help.
Then let's divide into two groups.
Erenville, Alisaie, and Forename will come with me to inquire with the locals. Meanwhile, the rest of you can go and inspect the dome.
Understood. Once everyone has finished, let us reconvene at Shaaloani Station.
We can start with Hhusatahwi. That's where the Dustwatch is based, if I remember correctly.
You do. The sheriff Kemakka should be able to tell us a few things.
So this region has its own peacekeeping force.
Everything seems in order at a glance...
The people of the wilds are brave indeed to remain here with those ships overhead.
Oh, it's you two...and I'll be, Vow Wuk Lamat as well!
You're sheriff of the Dustwatch, yes? What's the situation here in Hhusatahwi?
Well, the enemy hasn't tried to pick a fight with us yet. The ships gave us a shock when they first appeared, but they've just been floating there, holding position.
That said, I've received some unsettling reports from elsewhere. We've been investigating to the extent we can, but we're spread thin and haven't looked in on Sheshenewezi Springs yet.
Apparently, mechanical soldiers were seen in the vicinity...
What!? If this is true, then the people there are in danger!
I worry about the other townships as well. If the rest of you could head to the Springs, I'll pay a visit to Mehwahhetsoan.
I'll accompany Erenville. See you all in a while.
We're honored that Vow Wuk Lamat should visit us personally. Please take care out there.
And all clear this way...
The mechanical soldiers don't seem to be in the area.
Still, we should talk to the locals. Let's each make rounds and see what we can learn.
Ah, so that's the way of it. Good thing he showed up when he did.
Ah, so that's the way of it. Good thing he showed up when he did.
Ah, so that's the way of it. Good thing he showed up when he did.
Ah, so that's the way of it. Good thing he showed up when he did.
Forename, you came! As you can see, we're doing all right.
After those ships appeared in the sky, soldiers clad in white showed up and surrounded the town.
But to our surprise and relief, a traveler came along and dealt with them all in a flash.
I'll never forget the way he soared through the air, spear in hand. Shame I never had the chance to ask his name.
We're all safe thanks to him, but I can't say the same for those in Yyasulani. We haven't heard from anyone there. I hope Namikka is well...
Elene'shpya must be worried sick. I do hope he's all right...
