State your business, adventurerrr.<snort> Hah hah hah! So this is the one Wheiskaet sends me.
I haven't the foggiest what he sees in you─and until I do, you will rrreceive no aid from me.
Perrrsistent bugger. Very well, let's have a look at you.
...You've seen your share of battle, there's no mistaking that. And you did manage to obtain that adamantoise egg. However, that was naught more than a display of brrrute force and blind courage.
The nunh I once fought also believed that his strrrength would save him. He was wrong, and now I am nunh.
Many years ago, I joined the Company of Heroes to hone my skills, instead of challenging my predecessor before I was ready. Even when I was young, I understood that victorrry goes to the patient, the cunning, the pragmatic.
That is why I claimed my position, and it is why I still hold it. And it is why I will not help an unprrroven whelp.
The Children of the Sands do not offer aid to strangers. To do so is a sign of weakness. However, if you were rrrecognized as a skilled hunter in your own right, it would be permissible to assist you.
Across the desert to the east lies an Amalj'aa encampment. There dwells a warrior renowned both for his strrrength and his guile. To even face this Amalj'aa in battle, you must first find a way to lure him away from the encampment.
This will be your test: to drrraw out and defeat the veteran. For this, I will offer you no advice─only this worn spear.
Why, you ask? You will have to solve that rrriddle yourself. Now go─slay this old warrior and bring to me his necklace.
Tell me, adventurerrr: is our old nemesis dead?
'Tis a fine necklace, as befits a veteran of countless battles. It will make an excellent trophy.
The spear? It belonged to one of his brrrothers. I knew when he spied it from afar, he would be unable to rrresist venturing outside the encampment to see for himself.
Did you discern my intent, or was it dumb luck, I wonder...
Heh heh heh! Either way, you imprrress me, adventurer! I shall tell you of the ingredient you seek.
A shame we did not meet when I was still with the Company of Heroes. You would have made a fine rrrecruit.
But no point dwelling on what cannot be. You have a Wellwick worm to hunt.
Sandworms slither brrrazenly across the desert dunes, but Wellwick worms are far fewer in number. Rarity brrreeds demand, and so their meat is highly prized as a delicacy.
The only way to catch your quarry is to entice it with something it cannot rrresist.
These worms prrrey on the smaller creatures of the Sagolii. A freshly slaughtered angler carcass would be my choice of bait.
There is an area teeming with anglers to the east. I will mark it upon your map, along with the location where Wellwick worms are most frrrequently sighted.
Be warned─the blood will drive the worm into a feeding frrrenzy. If your skills are lacking, it will devour you as well.
You look well. Have you caught your quarry, then?
Your skills as a hunter rrrival those of our best. I applaud your success, Forename.
The meat will need to be heavily smoked before I ship it to Wheiskaet. Worry not─you have my word that he will rrreceive it in time for the banquet.
You must be eager to obtain the third ingrrredient. I regret to say that I know naught of its location. For the nonce, you should return to Costa del Sol and seek Wheiskaet's counsel.
Ah, but hold a moment. Since you will be meeting the captain again soon, there is something I would like you to deliver to him for me.
The captain was always fond of this brandewine. I would be grrrateful if you could deliver it on my behalf.
I was a rrreckless, angry youth when I first joined the Company, and he would have been well within his rights to cast me out. Everything I have I owe to his wisdom and generrrosity.
Aye, Wheiskaet was a firm-yet-fair teacher, an expert molder of men. And I suspect that is still the case now.
Please give him my rrregards, Forename.
Well met, Forename. Landenel and U'odh Nunh both spoke highly of you. What brings you here today?
Ahhh, my favorite. I shall have to thank the nunh personally.
Now, you have but one ingredient left. Fortunately, you will not have to travel to Aldenard this time to obtain it.
Truth be told, I never intended for you to collect this last ingredient. Brayflox, my old quartermaster, wished to bring it to Costa del Sol herself.
However, not long ago, she sent word that there's been some trouble at the Longstop, and that the delivery would be delayed indefinitely. She told me nothing of the incident itself, but I fear the situation may be dire.
Though I would like nothing more than to aid her myself, I have no choice but to turn to you and your allies. Make haste to Hidden Falls docks and speak with Ozun Nazun. He will direct you to Raincatcher Gully, where Brayflox and her people have made their home.
