Hm? I can spare no time for you. Other troubles demand my attention.
What troubles? What ill fortune has befallen you?
Not me, but my lambs. Some few wandered far and have yet to return.
Mayhap they will return to their mothers in time. Mayhap they will not. Mayhap you can help?
If we must, then we must. Let us be about it, Forename.
Greetings. I trust all of our little explorers are safely accounted for?
That they are. My thanks to you, Doman. Now─you had questions for me?
Aye. I would know more of the Oronir─of their creation, and of Father Azim.
As you wish. Come, let us sit.
Before we begin, tell me: what do you know of the Au Ra, and how they came to be?
Yes, yes. A common tale, and one believed by many tribes.
But what it does not mention is this: Azim and Nhaama were lovers.
Oh, they fought in the beginning, as did their creations. That much is true. But when they saw how the Xaela and the Raen rose above their hatreds and joined hands in harmony, their hearts stirred, and the love their children shared became theirs as well.
Alas, he was of the sun and she of the moon. Apart they must remain, lest day and night cease to be, and with them all creation.
With sadness in their hearts they returned to the heavens─he to the day, she to the night, destined to walk before and after, never to meet.
As time passed, Azim's yearning for his beloved grew deeper still. Was there truly naught that could be done, he wondered. At last, he knew.
"If the Father cannot be with the Mother, then he shall go amongst her children. Now and ever after.“
So it was that Azim took a fragment of his being and with it fashioned an avatar. Clad in scale of midnight, he descended, and sought out the Xaela.
Yea, he was the first Oronir. We are of his flesh and his blood. We are the children of Azim, and it is our duty to watch over and keep the Xaela safe.
...I confess, I did not expect the tale of your people's beginnings to be quite so romantic.
Yet I must ask: if it is your duty to defend the Xaela, how can you go to war with them in the Naadam? Is that not a contradiction?
If a father disciplines his son, does that mean there is no love in his heart? Xaela are not wont to kneel. They must be made to─only then will they heed reason.
I see... Such is the way of the Steppe.
Thank you, elder, for sharing with us your wisdom.
Eager to depart? Ere you go, you would do well to hear the end of my tale.
When Nhaama looked down and saw the avatar of Azim, she knew him at once, and shed tears of love and longing.
When they struck the earth, they rose anew, as a counterpart to the Oronir. Their fates entwined.
So you see, for every son of Azim is a daughter of Nhaama for whom he must search. Even now.
Mayhap I am being overly optimistic, but I sense that these Oronir may prove loyal allies to Doma under the right circumstances.
Their arrogance is rooted in the belief that they must act as caretakers of all Xaela. Therefore, if we can prove to them that we come as kindred spirits, seeking to defeat a common foe...
But mayhap this is a discussion for after we win the Naadam. Come, let us return to Magnai
Hmm...you shine with the light of newfound wisdom. Could it be that you have at last accepted the supremacy of the Sun?
No matter. You have each completed your tasks, and proven yourselves deserving of mercy.
However, if it is freedom you desire, then there is one more thing you must do...
...A pity you will not pledge yourselves to the Sun. You might have proved useful in the coming Naadam.
Nevertheless, I will permit you to return and fight for the Mol. Their cause is futile, with or without your assistance. However, you must first complete a final task, as was my decree.
You will reconnoiter the encampment of the Dotharl.
For this task, two will go, and two will remain.
Should the two who embark upon this expedition choose to flee, or be captured or killed by the Dotharl, then the others will be taken as slaves and serve the Sun unto death.
We'd better not fail then, eh? The question is, who should we send?
That is not for you to decide.
All of you have conquered Bardam's Mettle and proven yourselves warriors of the Steppe. You should all be equally capable of carrying out this task, and therefore, you should have no objections.
Brother Magnai. A word.
The Buduga require that a hostage be male, for if these ones fail, we cannot accept a woman as a slave.
Therefore, we choose the firewalker. The one they call Hien.
...So be it. I shall choose second.
I doubt either of you are the moon I seek, but stranger tales have been told─and men are of no use to me...
I don't know what this “moon” stuff is that he's going on about, but I don't like the sound of it. At all.
...No, of course not. The woman I seek is of the dusk─a gentle, ethereal maiden. A dancer in the morning mist.
You are warriors of the Steppe─fierce and brutal, conquerors of magicked stone and steel. Ethereal you are not.
...A Western expression, I presume. Betokening...I care not what.
Ah...how well your tasks befitted you both.
But since I must choose, I choose you. You did well milking the sheep─they took a liking to you, I am told.
Gosetsu and Forename, then. I had hoped to see these undying ones for myself, but it seems it was not meant to be.
Dotharl Khaa lies far to the south, where the grass turns to sand.
Return with valuable knowledge, and all will be free to rejoin the Mol. Now go.
Have no fear, my friend. We shall see them freed soon enough. Let us quit this place and speak of our plans outside.
'Tis plain they hope we will never return. I shall enjoy disappointing them.
According to my map, there is a colossal wreck to the south which should provide a vantage point from which to survey Dotharl Khaa from afar. Let us go and do just that.
Over there, look! Those men are in danger!
Gah! Too late for the one, perhaps, but there is yet time to save the other.
Come! We cannot abandon him to his fate!
