It appears to be genuine!
Then perhaps there is yet hope!
Perhaps...
We acknowledge your seal, but we must be certain of its authenticity.
Follow the azure flowers to our village. There we will judge if you are friend or foe.
Try not to stray from the path, all right?
“Follow the flowers...” Would it kill them to escort us?
But if it affords us an opportunity to investigate Yx'Maja...fine.
I would have the seal, that we may confirm its authenticity.
Straight to the point, I see. Very well.
Hmmm. There is no mistaking the crest of the royal family.
It is of proper size, and by its weight it is plain it was made from gold. The seal is indeed genuine.
For three thousand years we have waited for this moment, and now you are finally here. I bid you welcome, allies of Ronka.
I am Almet, chieftainess of Fanow.
Uimet, her younger sister.
Cymet. A pleasure. We were beginning to lose hope that you would come.
I beg your pardon?
These are troubled times for my people.
Though I can but imagine what has compelled you to venture into our woods.
You must be tired after your journey. Come, take your ease.
If you'd like I will show you about the village. Though I must warn you it is a long way down to the forest floor, so do watch your step.
This way, um... What is your name?
Forename? ...And this is a common name nowadays? How times change.
But I digress. Come, and be sure to watch your step.
As bearers of the seal, you have a right to know what became of the empire, and my people's purpose here.
We are descendants of the palace guard which served under the last emperor. And to this day, we carry on the duty of our forebears, the final decree of His Eminence before Ronka's fall.
“By the wisdom of our people was Ronka made to thrive. Such knowledge must never be forgotten, nor may it be suffered to fall into the hands of the wicked.
“Keep it secret. Keep it safe. And look to the coming of our allies. Unto them you shall bequeath our all, and thus will Ronka live on.”
By his command we have remained in the Rak'tika Greatwood, guardians of Ronka's ruins, and the wisdom held within.
I hope thou wilt not think the question impertinent, but did thy people's famed longevity perchance play a part in the emperor's decision to entrust this mission unto thee and thine?
That was one reason, yes. We Viis would easily live to see three of your elven lifetimes.
We were also the fiercest fighters. There are none more fit than us to stand watch over the remains of Ronka.
But our duty has grown ever more perilous in the wake of the Flood.
Settlements such as this one were plentiful before the Light claimed dominion over the land. But now...
Fanow is all that remains.
Our numbers dwindle year by year...
Before long, there will be no one left to honor the emperor's wishes.
And you believe we are the allies for whom you have waited?
You have the seal, do you not!? After three millennia of waiting, that alone is nothing short of a miracle! Truth be told, I had begun to think you would never come!
Sister!
We are glad of your presence here in the Greatwood.
The wisdom of Ronka is yours should you wish it. You need only ask.
You come in search of the Lightwarden...
My apologies, but I do not know where it makes its lair.
Uimet, do you recall any sightings of this creature?
Hmmm... Not these past thirty summers.
Thirty? But that would mean... How old are you, exactly?
...Young enough to remember!
With age comes knowledge. There may yet be one among us who has seen or heard of the abomination you seek.
We have leave to speak with the other Viis, then?
But of course.
Then we should split up and inquire individually. If someone knows something, I would hear it while there is yet time to act.
