But of course I remember! How could I forget a pair like that? The most beautiful girl you'll ever see, scoffing down dango as if her life depended on it while the old samurai looked on. Not quite what he expected, I'll wager!
Far be it from me to gossip about my customers, but he was planning to spirit her away across the Ruby Sea─out of the reach of her family, no doubt. When the girl had finally had her fill, they set off in the direction of the Shiokaze Hostelry, presumably to find someone discreet with a boat.
So Gosetsu makes for Doma.
But this woman who travels with him... The more I hear about her, the more I wonder if she can truly be Yotsuyu.
While doubts remain over the identity of Gosetsu's traveling companion, for now we can but follow the trail.
Come, let us away to the pier, and make ready to sail. With luck, Alisaie will already have joined Master Soroban and Mistress Tataru there.
Excellent timing, my friends. Mistress Alisaie arrived mere moments ago.
All went well at my end. Gyodo met with an imperial officer and wheedled his way to some new information.
It seems the troops who recently arrived in Kugane came directly from Garlemald. The imperials based here have been kept in the dark.
And that's not all. A contingent of the aforementioned troops are preparing for deployment to the Ruby Sea. If I didn't know better, I'd say they'd picked up Gosetsu's trail.
Then your information matches ours. We are quite certain that Gosetsu seeks to cross to the mainland.
I'm sorry─did I hear that right? You used Scion funds to buy Gosetsu's katana...at the asking price?
Aye, well, we were in some haste, and it seemed a worthwhile gesture. Speaking of which, here is the contract of sale. Pray see that the man is paid.
Thal's...beard. You agreed to this? Give me strength...
<sigh> Well, it's not like the search can wait. You'd best be on your way.
But Alphinaud─we need to talk. I want you to come straight to the offices as soon as you get back. Promise me.
Oh? Very well. I shall call upon you as soon as I return.
First, let us go to the Ruby Price. If Gosetsu has already set sail, the sentries there are sure to have seen him.
Tataru seemed rather vexed, did she not? Ever the melodramatist. I am sure our finances can stretch to a single sword.
Remind me to explain the value of such gestures when we next see her. Ah, but I digress. We have work to do.
Right. I suggest we begin by learning what we can from the sentries.
What's going on out there!?
