Blargh! Wha...what happened?
Ow! That smarts! If this was meant to be a joke, it isn't funny!
Hm? Yes, I'm Runningway. Do you mind explaining why you hit me in the face with your balls... Of mousse flesh?
I'm highly knowledgeable about the Final Days?
Hah, that's the most ridiculous thing I've heard since I woke up! Who told you that joke?
As if we've got time to look into the Final Days when there's so much to do before the great voyage.
It's true that Hydaelyn did impart to us some knowledge of the event, but I know about as much as any other Loporrit around here. Less, probably.
I don't know why anyone would think it's funny to go around telling people I'm an expert, but they'd better hope I don't get my paws on them!
Sorry I couldn't be of more help, but if there's nothing else, I've work to do!
And I'm off!
Oh no, you caught him? I-I mean... Well done you...
Any luck? I tried near the entrance, but there was no sign of him.
I could find neither hide nor...hair of him. How did you fare?
So, he knows no more than the others.
Care to explain yourself, Growingway?
W-Well, you see... I, uh...
I misremembered. Yes, that's it! I misremembered. Terribly sorry about that.
Hmmm. Afraid I'm drawing a blank, though. Try as I might, I can't remember who I was thinking of.
On an unrelated note, what of Urianger? I assume you spoke with him earlier, but did he say when he'll be returning?
On his way to the Watcher's Palace with Livingway?
Between Growingway's sudden lapse of memory and our lack of other leads, maybe our time would be better spent lending Urianger a hand.
Wh-What!? Now hold on a moment!
It's all coming back to me. Yes, I remember!
The information you're looking for is in the archives. Yes, that's where you'll find all sorts of useful knowledge, including that pertaining to the Final Days.
If some scheme was afoot, surely Urianger would be the first to see through it.
Then again, he does tend to give others the benefit of the doubt...
I am beginning to grow tired of these games.
Oh, what to do, what to do... I promised Livingway I would help, but...
No. I promised I'd help, so that's what I'll do!
The archives are on the second floor of the main plaza, the eastern wing. Follow me!
I suspect the Loporrits are up to something, but if there is aught to be learned of the Final Days, I think it best we play along. For now, at least.
The architecture of this place is impressive, though more than a little confusing to navigate.
Is it too much to ask for clearly marked exits? Or a map, perhaps?
What other knowledge do you suppose we could glean from their archives?
The archives are right through this door, but it seems to be locked.
I guess we'll just have to go and find whoever has the key.
Growingway, enough.
If you have naught else to tell us of the Final Days, you need only say so. We can ill afford to be wasting time here, as you well know.
Did you yourselves not tell us we must act quickly?
Yes. Yes, we did, but...
The moon was to be a perfect paradise for the people of Etheirys, and we're running out of time to make everything ready for their arrival.
We hoped you'd see the wonders we have to offer, but you've found nothing but faults and flaws in our work. Only one of you saw our potential, so you others must be kept here.
Ah, so that's Livingway's game. Run us about in circles and, failing that, lock us away so we can't put the plan at risk.
Everyone except Urianger.
He understands what is at stake... What must be done.
I fear you've misjudged us, Growingway. Never have we decried the notion of using the moon as a means of escape.
That said, my heart breaks at the thought of abandoning Etheirys and her reflections to their doom. If there is a way to avert the Final Days, I wish to find it. We all do.
We may fail, but our efforts would never be at the expense of your plans.
But why would you take that risk!?
There's no room for ifs and maybes now.
The people of Etheirys will escape here to the moon. They'll be safe, and we'll finally get to see all their happy, smiling faces.
I'm sorry, but we can't let you leave. We just can't.
Do what you must, but...try not to hurt them.
I'll be back in a moment. Don't do anything rash while I'm gone.
If we dally, they'll overwhelm us with sheer numbers. I say we knock these ones out, split up, and make our way to the exit.
Agreed. Let us reconvene where Argos awaits outside.
S-Surrender!
You won't escape!
Seize her!
Blargh!
We need...reinforcements...
Ow, that hurt!
Ow, that hurt!
We can't lose!
You're in for it now!
We're not done yet!
She's too powerful...!
Urgh!
Too...strong...
Too...strong...
Please, come quietly!
We have to...save them...
There you are. Didn't rough them up too badly, did you?
Good. You're here.
We must hurry to the Watcher's Palace and find Urianger.
...And what, pray tell, do we seek at the Watcher's Palace?
Oh, come off it, friend! You know full well why we're here.
The time has come for you to return to Etheirys and help your brethren prepare for their journey here and beyond!
Forgive me, Livingway, but I cannot in good conscience proceed with this plan.
Huh!? But what about the Final Days? The death and the doom!? We have to hurry before it's too late!
Your unflagging commitment to your duty is endearing, to say the least.
Oh bugger!
Be at ease. They bear you no grudge, nor do I. How could we, having come to understand your purpose?
For millennia, you and yours worked tirelessly towards the singular purpose of this heavenly vessel's construction. An arduous feat by any measure.
'Tis clear you have spared no effort. Why, your very names are a testament to your dedication.
Our...our names? I'm not sure I understand what you're getting at...
Names are an expression of the self─a declaration of one's hopes and aspirations.
Your use of contemporary, uncomplicated nomenclature doth ensure clarity of purpose.
There can be no doubt that your love for the people of Etheirys is boundless and pure.
Yes, yes! A most mellifluous phrasing!
We Loporrits were born of Hydaelyn's love for Etheirys.
That shining, shimmering blue jewel. Brightest star in the sky! Brimming with life and possibilities.
For as long as I can remember I've toiled in anticipation of the day when this vessel might be needed.
All I've ever wanted was to meet those She cherished so dearly. To serve and serve well!
That goes for all of us, don't you see? So help us─help us help them! Lead them here, where we can keep them safe!
If there's anything wrong with what we've built, we'll fix it! We'll make it right!
Your works want not for repair. Yet there remaineth much for you to learn of men, and your own kin besides.
Singingway. Thy name bespeaketh more than the simple marriage of rhythm and rhyme.
The songs of Etheirys are beyond counting, and span the length and breadth of emotion.
Maps are monuments to man's pioneering spirit and his devotion to charting the furthest reaches of our star.
Many have devoted their lifetimes to exploratory pursuits. To venture unto the highest mountains and the deepest oceans, in search of unknown frontiers.
And thou, my friend. I... Hmm. I do not think we have met.
