Please help! Sister Ourcen went out all on her own and hasn't come back!
She always reads to me right here, about Thal and the Order and the other side. I told her I lost my shiny thing and she went looking for it. But what if the monsters outside hurt her? Please find her!
You... You are the one from the church. Thank goodness you arrived when you did. It seems my gratitude is yours yet again.
You spoke with the child? Yes, well, I was able to find his lost trinket. It is a ring given him by his mother before she passed. I will see it safely back to him.
Sister Ourcen was attacked outside the Golden Bazaar? Gods forfend... I will secure a room at the inn for her should she require any rest.
Searching for the mementos of orphans? And risking her own well-being in the doing, no less? Certainly not the dastardly deeds Thancred would have us believe.
I am well glad I reserved that inn room for Sister Ourcen. It seems she received greater injuries from her attackers than she initially let on. Thankfully, she is expected to make a full recovery.
But now, on to the matter at hand. Thancred came looking for you once more. He left word that he will be waiting at the Amalj'aa encampment to the southeast. I pray the two of you are able to uncover some evidence regarding these disappearances.
Ah, there you are, Forename. So good of you to come!
Indeed, I've heard all about good Sister Ourcen. Isembard said her wounds were serious. It would seem my suspicions about the poor rose were misplaced.
But false though they were, perhaps my suspicions were not entirely without merit. Whilst following Sister Ourcen near the Golden Bazaar, a band of Amalj'aa caught my eye.
I tracked them as far as this encampment, but... Well, let us say that I would much prefer to keep my distance and remain here. This, of course, brings me to why I requested you, dear Forename. Would you be so kind as to take a look inside?
Well? Did anything tickle your fancy?
This leaflet... “See the wealth of Nald to the hands of your children.” It looks to be some sort of assembly to provide the poor with work.
The lettering, though... Atrocious, is it not? And these bits about Nald'thal seem somewhat...less than studied. I find it hard to believe one among the Order penned this.
Pray take this to the inn at Camp Drybone. Let us see what Sister Ourcen makes of it.
My savior comes again. To what do I owe the honor this day?
What is this? Blasphemous... These are not our teachings at all! This was not made by any true brother or sister of the Order─of that, I can assure you.
Come to think of it, weeks ago, the church was plagued by missing garments. Could someone be posing as a priest of the Order to deceive the people?
The plot thickens, Forename! Our culprit pretends to be a priest to lend credence to his deception. There is no doubt an irony in there somewhere.
But I suspect we have a worthy adversary on our hands. I shall consider how best to handle this. For now, tell Isembard what we have learned here.
Posing as a priest!? To think...
These troubling notions aside, it is gratifying to finally be able to move this investigation forward. Thank you once again, Forename. I shall keep my ears and eyes open─now more than ever.
I'm afraid I have not seen any unusual activity. Nor have any at this camp given me cause to doubt them. But unless we can identify the culprit, and soon, more innocents will fall victim...
Do not despair just yet, my friend. An idea occurs to me.
Our suspect has been posing as a priest, using leaflets bearing false promises to lure the poor. Let Forename and me serve like with like by posing as impoverished souls in need of succor.
Ah, I dare to hope that this will yield us the answers we seek. It will be a dangerous undertaking, but you two are more than capable of looking after yourselves.
I'm next to useless in a battle, but I can supply the garments for the disguise. These old tunics and slops should serve your needs, so long as you don't mind the smell and the stains.
These will serve very well. You have my thanks.
Listen, Forename. So as to lay the foundation for our little ploy, we must make it widely known that more vagrants have arrived at camp and are desperate for coin.
To this end, I want you to don the old garments Isembard has lent us, and beg for work around the camp. Before long, the false priest should catch wind and approach us.
