...Mistress Venat!? I was not told to expect─ We would have prepared an official welcome!
Please, there is no need for fanfare. I only wish to speak with Galene, if that might be arranged...?
Yes! Galene! Of course! I will inform her immediately.
Ah, but she may be engaged in a testing phase. You could be in for something of a wait... Should I let her know your business is urgent?
That won't be necessary. This lovely view will keep us occupied until she is ready to receive us.
A delightful breeze...and a breathtaking view.
What is it like in the future? Is the world still a beautiful place?
I swear, I could hear the glimmer in your eyes. And the adoration in your voice.
Dark, hidden places, rife with danger? Those have an altogether different but no less powerful sort of appeal.
Elpis is a place of exceptional beauty in this age, so it may not make for a fair comparison.
While we wait, will you not tell me about your adventures?
Not the portentous events which led you here, but the simple delights all your own.
By learning about the future world, I may gain insight into future me's plans.
But more than that, I have an interest simply as a fellow traveler. Short of going somewhere oneself, there's naught more stirring than hearing another's account.
Incredible! Would that I could have been there to see it!
Yours is a harsh and unforgiving world. Yet in spite of this, your brethren hold fast to their virtue.
To know that the light of mankind's potential still shines, even in that faraway place... It gives me heart.
Thank you for regaling me with your tales. I will treasure every word.
As you know, I was once a scholar. And among other things, I sought to understand the workings of the world.
What exactly is aether? How formed the laws of nature? Whence sprung mankind?
Riddles and mysteries beyond counting. Over the years I have managed to find answers to some few of them...
Yet rather than attain a sense of mastery, the more I understood, the more I came to hold the world and its miracles in awe.
We too are miracles, each and every one of us. Born of the warm breath of life that traverses the heavens, swirling through eternity.
When I fully grasped the improbability of our existence, nothing felt impossible any more. If it could be imagined, it could be done.
A passion swelled within me. An epiphany dispelling all preconceptions of what was natural and true.
And a presence without. Immense yet intimate─fate, perhaps─holding us in its tender embrace...
As reassuring as it was intimidating. How keenly aware I became of creation's fragility, built as it is upon precarious happenstance.
I was overcome with an irrepressible urge to know the world more intimately. To hear its voice, feel its breath...
I ventured forth on a journey that very day. So very long ago now.
Freed from presumption and prejudice, I saw the world through a newborn's eyes. Everything fresh and new and so, so beautiful.
Lands that stretched on forever. Skies one could drown in. The heartbeat of nature, silent yet strong.
And amidst it all a people. Beacons of light and life. Laughter that warmed my heart like naught else before.
They are my meaning and my purpose. My love.
And so long as they need help, I cannot return to the star.
Perhaps my future self is still waiting for it.
The moment she can let go and walk unto the end...
Safe in the knowledge that man will find his own way.
You, who are our future... Tell me this and tell me true.
Has your journey been good? Has it been worthwhile?
