Ware, adventurer!
Now, outta me damn way!
Please! You cannot let him win!
I...I must be gettin' old, lettin' some green 'venturer get the best o' me.
Da...
<cough> That's one big bloody ship. Big...an' nasty lookin'. Ye made that, did ye...?
My thanks, Forename. I shudder to think what may have become of the Victory without your intervention.
<sigh> The pirates have made a right mess of things─I'd best get to sorting out the docks.
...And my thoughts could use some sorting out as well. Ever did my father have a way of turning my life upside down.
Pray convey my thanks─and my apologies─to Ghimthota.
How fare you, Forename? I cannot begin to thank you for the role you played in preventing this madness.
You defended more than a simple ship─you saved the budding hope of Limsa Lominsa from a violent demise. The day was yours.
It seems our security regimen will require much in the way of improvement if we are to truly keep the Drydocks safe.
...Ahtbyrm apologizes? Well, I suppose I can understand why he would feel responsible for his father's actions. Of all those involved, this incident was hardest on him.
But, in time, I believe he will come to a single conclusion: the most fitting way of moving past his anguish is to see the Victory completed and in the water.
Ah, by the by, the pirates we defeated have been handed over to the Yellowjackets. Reyner's men will be taking over the investigation.
Before the Yellowjackets moved in, however, we recovered a most unusual object. Should you have the time to spare, I would ask of you another favor...
Forename. In light of your role in recent events, there are few others to whom I would entrust this task.
Since last we spoke, a curious missive has been discovered amongst the personal effects of Ahtzapfyn, the pirate behind the plot to sabotage the Victory.
This missive was penned in the most unusual script─a script we believe to be some manner of code.
Needless to say, anything which a proven enemy of Limsa Lominsa deems worthy of enciphering is like to be of great interest to the Maelstrom. Unfortunately, none among us can make any sense of the message.
In cases such as this, I am told the Yellowjackets are wont to turn to Baderon and his convenient...connections.
Thus I would have you deliver this missive to the proprietor of the Drowning Wench. Into his hand, and no other, do you understand?
Ahoy there, Forename! I've been 'earin' about your deeds at the Drydocks!
Ahtbyrm laid out the entire tale fer me. Poor sod was still reelin' at 'is old man's part in the business, but at least ye kept the Victory from bein' sunk afore she'd sailed.
An' fer that, I owe ye me thanks!
Ye've really made a name fer yerself 'ere in Limsa, lass. Folk know that when they need summat doin'─
Eh? You need summat doin'? An' what might that be?
...Ye want someone to read a message writ in funny letters fer ye? An' Ghimthota thought I might know a man as could? Well, let's see it, then!
Aye...
...I reckon I might know a canny bugger what can read stuff like this. Ugly sod by the name o' Baderon.
Ye know, yer like one o' me regulars now, Forename.
Ye've never let me down yet, an', Navigator 'elp me, I reckon I can trust ye.
Ghimthota was right to want this message deciphered... We've got us some trouble brewin', 'ere, an' no mistake. Get ready fer action, an' I'll explain.
Good to 'ave ye aboard, lass. Now then...where to start?
Back when I was younger an' nastier, I earned me livin' as a sellsword. In that business, if ye wanted to know what yer enemy was up to, you 'ad to learn to read the orders ye prised from the cold dead 'ands of 'is mates. That's 'ow I came to know 'ow to read yer message.
Truth be told, the script was only too bloody familiar. Them's Sahagin letters, lass. An' I should know─I've gutted more fishback messengers than I can count.
It gets worse, though... The plan to blow up the Victory is all in 'ere, right down to the fine details.
Looks like they meant to raise eight kinds of 'ell in western La Noscea, then 'it the Maelstrom's new flagship in the confusion.
The point bein', the attack on the Victory weren't the act of a few rebellious pirates─'twas a key part o' some canny bastard's grand plan.
But if I'm readin' this aright, the attack itself came much too early. I'll wager they panicked when they saw ye was on to 'em, rushed in to do the job, an' buggered it up.
Hmmm... Them tattoo-faced bastards as they say was payin' Ahtbyrm's old man, they're with the Serpent Reavers, right? ...But none o' their crew was there, was they? Did they 'ave summat better to do, or what?
...Seven 'ells! I've got it all backwards! That mess at the Victory─that was meant to be the bloody distraction!
The fishbacks ain't interested in the Maelstrom's baby! They're after men, just like they've always been. They're sendin' their pirate lackeys after a civilian target.
This bit about raisin' 'ell in western La Noscea...that's where it'll be. Summat tells me Swiftperch is about to get 'it, an' 'it 'ard!
'Ere's a rough translation o' the message.
Take it to Commodore Reyner at the Coral Tower, an' tell 'im 'e's in fer a busy day.
Oh, an' give 'im an 'and, eh? Ye can be damn sure 'e'll need one.
