Curse those fiends! It's as though they knew we were coming...
It was a foolish thing to do, I know, but I had hoped we might demonstrate our devotion by slaying a number of the scalekin.
Moreover, it was House Haillenarte that yielded the Steel Vigil to the Horde many years ago. One might say that our defeat here heralded the slow decline of our house's once-great name.
We have been brought even lower by these despicable accusations of heresy. And despite my best efforts, I have done naught to improve the situation.
The day of my trial approaches. Soon I must accept the judgment of the inquisitors, whatever it may be. But even should my protestations fall on deaf ears, I will proclaim my innocence to my dying breath!
What did you find at the Steel Vigil? Ah, I see... A reckless plan, but at least it did not cost him and his knights their lives.
I have news for you as well. A witness to the final flight of the Enterprise has been found. Alas, there is a complication.
It has become common knowledge that you paid a visit to Lord Francel at Skyfire Locks not long ago. Upon learning of this, the witness became understandably reticent to make your acquaintance, for fear of being seen in the company of a woman who might later be declared a heretic.
A not unreasonable fear, given the zeal with which Inquisitor Guillaime has conducted his investigations. In any case, if we wish to obtain his testimony, we must first clear Lord Francel's name─and, by association, yours.
As I see it, the key to proving Lord Francel's innocence is discrediting the evidence against him. I speak of the draconian rosary found in the chest you yourself recovered. If you would, please tell me of the incident in question.
...So it was found in a locked chest labeled as the property of Lord Francel. If the rosary was not his, then someone else with access must have planted it. Here is what you must do: return to Skyfire Locks and speak with Rickeman. He works closely with the porters who ferry goods across Coerthas, so he may have some inkling of who could be responsible.
