At last, the Scions' woman deigns to grace me with her presence. A pity that we have no time for pleasantries.
Our first destination is Issom-Har. Come─we are late enough as it is.
Yes, this location should suffice. Once I finish calibrating my instruments, I will require but a moment to take the necessary measurements.
I trust I need not explain that my work can suffer no interruptions? Then please─stand at an appropriate distance and keep watch for wild beasts.
I see we have both completed our respective tasks. A satisfactory outcome. Though, if I could make one suggestion: you might try to dispatch your foes more quietly in future. I do not like to pick fault, but I really must be allowed to concentrate.
Now then, Snakemolt awaits. Shall we?
Right about...here, yes. As before, I would ask that you keep an eye out for dangerous beasts as I work.
Fascinating. These readings are not at all what I expected...
...Though perhaps that should come as no surprise. I am not given to superstition, but there is a queer, almost blasphemous air hereabouts. Let us quit this place and return to Rootslake. We have one more site to survey.
As before, my guardian. Pray leave me to my task and ensure our safety.
This data should prove invaluable to─ <sniff> <sniff> Ye gods, what is that stench? Did you slaughter a creep of adamantoises while my back was turned!?
Quickly now, to Camp Tranquil! I will not have my clothing reeking of blood and offal!
Hm. You chose to paddle in the ichor awhile longer, I take it... No matter─I took advantage of my unexpected privacy and performed a cursory analysis of my data.
It would appear that there has been a measurable decrease in Eorzea's ambient aether concentrations since the Calamity...
However, this data is far from conclusive. We must take additional measurements to confirm my assessment.
For our next survey, I would have you escort me to Urth's Fount.
The ambient aether concentrations there are so high that crystalline structures form spontaneously. Consequently, anomalous fluctuations should be much easier to detect. Brilliant, yes? No, don't bother answering─that was rhetorical. Now, come along!
You should be more than familiar with the procedure by now. Pray find a suitable position from which to keep watch while I take measurements.
Yes...yes...quite high, yet still markedly lower than the historical measurements taken near the end of the Sixth Astral Era...
Could the presence of a primal account for the difference? Or is there something else...something else...
Something...else...
Scion! Scion, come here! I-I need you!
Fear not, my friends! Help has arrived!
There you are, Forename! Hoary and I were worried when you and your charge failed to return at the appointed hour.
<sigh> Gutted like a hog...but not by one, no. These wounds were made with a blade... Doesn't look like he put up much of a fight, either. Nary a mark on his sword or his shield...
I've heard nothing of any Crystal Brave operations in this area. What cause had Wilred to come here?
Wh-What should we do!?
We will see to the scholar's protection, Forename.
Aye, and the boy's remains. You should return to the Rising Stones. The Antecedent will want to know what happened here.
And so do I...
Forename, you are returned! And you seem troubled. Did the role of escort chafe so?
Wilred...dead? Mayhap murdered? By the Twelve! How can that be!?
I will send word to Alphinaud at once. He will want to conduct a full investigation, and send word to Wilred's family...
Gods... He was just a boy. Who would do this─and why? ...But I am sorry, Forename. Doubtless this weighs heavy on your heart...and we have already imposed upon you so much.
Pray take some time for yourself─I daresay you have more than earned a respite. After all, we will be most busy with preparations as the banquet draws near. Should other adventures summon you elsewhere, perhaps now is the time to heed their call?
Though recent events weigh heavily on our minds, we must needs set them aside for now.
We are come to a defining moment in Eorzean history...
The grand commemoration of our joint defense of Ishgard─the first time in fifteen long years that our people have stood side by side with our neighbors to the north to fight in common cause.
This may mark the true rebirth of the Eorzean Alliance. Failing that, it should at the very least serve to bring our nations closer together.
...We have every reason to raise our voices in celebration, do we not?
We have bested Dravanians and Ascians both. Against desperate odds, we have fought and won.
But the primals still plague us, and the Empire still plots our subjugation. And our triumphs, remarkable though they are, were bought at a terrible price.
Brave adventurers and allies, broken on the Steps of Faith. And before our eyes, in this very room, our dear friend Moenbryda...
This is the victory we have wrought, and it is as bitter ashes in my mouth.
I would sooner stay here and invite those with more appetite to enjoy the feast in my stead.
Alas, it is a royal banquet, and all of our allies will be in attendance. It is our duty to present a united front, that we might serve as a beacon of hope to all...
It seems I have no choice but to take my own advice.
I instructed the others to meet us in Ul'dah, that we might make our grand entrance together.
Unfortunately, I had to settle for leaving Tataru and Lhaminn a note. If they do not return quickly, they will have to settle for whatever leftovers I can smuggle out of the Fragrant Chamber...
Off to the big soirée, Forename? Raise a glass for me, eh? ...Or not. You don't look best pleased, lass. Somethin' on yer mind?
By the Navigator, Wilred's dead!? Godsdammit! They must know they've been rumbled...
I mean, er... Sod it. 'Tis past time we had this talk. After our last conversation, I got to thinkin' about where certain funds were comin' from. So I had a dig around─on the quiet, like─an' sure enough, I found it.
Seems a fair bit o' coin's made its way into the Braves' coffers courtesy of a “Dodo Consortium”─a daft name for a business if ever I heard one, which is what first gave me an inklin' that somethin' weren't right.
So I went through the ledgers again, an' found another half-dozen donations from organizations with stupid bloody names. Didn't take long to find the common thread: all were owned by the Mirage Trust.
Oh, I'll give the bastard credit─he showed us up for the amateurs we are. Short o' callin' one o' his businesses the bloody “Bribery Consortium,” I don't know what more he could've done to mock our rules on financial contributions.
The gods only know how many men o' the 1st an' 3rd are takin' Teledji's coin. But now we know as some of 'em are, I'd wager me right eye they're the ones what did for Wilred.
The earnest young fool had taken to askin' the wrong kind o' questions. Bound to attract attention, he was... Should've seen it at the time─but I didn't, gods damn me...
Still, I don't see what Teledji hopes to accomplish. He hid his scheme with all the care of a drunk pissin' into the wind...
No, he's cleverer than this─so we need to be clever too. That's the only way we'll ever repay this debt o' blood.
We'll purge every one o' them traitorous bastards from our ranks! On that you have me word.
An' Forename─mind yerself when yer in Ul'dah, eh? We're headin' into a storm. I can smell it.
...The kind what'll sweep a man overboard an' drag him under 'fore he knows it.
We have been waiting for you, Forename. The celebration is due to begin shortly.
I had hoped that we might make our introductions together, but Mistress Momodi just sent word that you are needed at the Quicksand...
We will go on ahead, Forename. Pray join us once matters at the Quicksand are resolved.
Give my regards to Momodi, and let her know that I will call upon her anon.
I appreciate you droppin' in on such short notice, Forename. I know you've got places to be, so I won't waste your time.
You're friends with a Crystal Brave by the name of Alianne, aren't you? Former adventurer? Come to think of it, I'm pretty sure you recruited her yourself.
Well anyway, she came 'round for a meal not long ago, and before she left, she asked me to give you a message. Said if the others ended up draggin' you to the feast, I was to see you got it before you made your grand entrance.
“Meet me at the station west of the Coffer & Coffin. There's something I must show you.”
A short message, I'll grant you, but she thought long and hard before pickin' those words. Barely touched her food, too. Under other circumstances, I'd've thought those signs of a troubled heart, but somethin' tells me she ain't plannin' to ask your thoughts on a gentleman caller.
A short message, I'll grant you, but she thought long and hard before pickin' those words. Barely touched her food, too. Under other circumstances, I'd've thought those signs of a troubled heart, but somethin' tells me she ain't plannin' to ask your thoughts on a gentleman caller.
A short message, I'll grant you, but she thought long and hard before pickin' those words. Barely touched her food, too. Under other circumstances, I'd've thought those signs of a troubled heart, but somethin' tells me she ain't plannin' to ask your thoughts on a gentleman caller.
Forename, is that you? What brings you out this way?
Lieutenant Alianne? Why no, I haven't seen her about...
Had she come this way, I guarantee we would have crossed paths. I must have passed this spot a dozen times.
We're to patrol the city's environs, on account of the royal banquet. Captain's orders, you understand. Speaking of which─isn't it about to begin?
You should be with the other honored guests, enjoying your well-deserved respite. Aye, pray return to Ul'dah, Forename. If I chance to meet the lieutenant, I will tell her you were here.
O Sultantree, hallowed spirit of my line...
Through my weakness, the glorious House of Ul has all but disappeared beneath the sands. For want of the strength to raise it up again, it were better that it fall.
Forgive me, but I know not what else to do...
I reckoned you'd head straight to the feast after meetin' with Alianne. What's the matter? No appetite?
...So she wasn't there, but this was, eh? Let's see...
Hmmm...looks to me like an alchemist's vial, but beyond that, I can't say. Might be best if you hold on to it for safekeepin', though.
Anyroad, no use worryin' about Alianne. I'm sure she'll turn up before too long, and when she does, we'll soon find out what this was all in aid of. Besides─you've got more important things to think about.
Would you believe that, while you were away, another message arrived for you? Well, one did.
One delivered by the sultana's handmaiden, no less. Seems Her Grace desires a private audience.
Her handmaiden will meet you on the Royal Promenade and escort you to the sultana's chambers....So what are you waitin' for? Go on, then! Go!
Everyone looks to be in high spirits.
With good cause.
A common victory may serve to unite even the most unlikely of allies.
You've brought us one step closer to a united Eorzea.
Your modesty knows no bounds, Antecedent.
Were it not for your efforts, Ser Aymeric would never have become such a steadfast ally.
When he convinces his countrymen to rejoin the Alliance, we shall all reap the benefits─military and economic.
I tell you, we are on the cusp of a new era of unity and prosperity.
Territorial disputes are all that divide us now.
But I have faith that we will find an amicable solution in time.
And failing that, I'll have my trusty Warrior of Light box the ears of all concerned. Speaking of whom...?
She will be joining us shortly. A matter at the Quicksand required her attention, but it did not sound serious.
Thank you for coming, madam. Her Grace is most eager to speak with you.
If you require a moment to compose yourself before your audience, you may have it. Or, if you are ready, it would be my honor to escort you to Her Grace's chambers forthwith.
Enter.
Your Grace. Your guest has arrived.
Pray come in, and take your ease.
'Tis well that the Steps of Faith held against the Horde.
And what of the city proper?
We sustained some few losses, but the heart of our nation yet beats with vigor. I am not certain I could say the same had we not received your most generous aid.
An attack on Ishgard is an attack on the realm. We stand together or fall divided.
Such noble words...after the fact.
I had hoped to speak in the presence of Her Grace, but it seems she has been delayed... That being the case, now would seem as good a time as any...
Honored friends! Pray allow me to convey Ishgard's warmest gratitude for your part in the defense of our lands.
'Tis upon the success of this very alliance that my recommendation to throw open the Gates of Judgement shall be founded. With the blessing of the archbishop, it is my hope that Ishgard will soon be reunited with her long-estranged sister nations─and that Eorzea shall once more be as one!
Very well.
Is aught amiss?
Nothing to worry about. I shall return anon.
You wished a word, Yuyuhase?
You may go.
Your Grace.
You must be curious as to the reason for this private audience. The matter I would discuss, however, will soon make apparent the need for discretion.
I intend to abdicate the throne and dissolve the monarchy.
You have seen for yourself the storm of turmoil that howls through our streets. The government fails in its responsibilities, and my subjects suffer the consequences of our incompetence.
But I will see them suffer no longer. The victory feast shall provide the stage on which I declare the dissolution of the sultanate.
'Tis mine intent that the ruling class of our golden city should take its place beside the common man in a fair and equitable republic. No more shall this nation bow to the whims of a privileged few.
Yet that which I propose will entail the tearing up of this city's very foundations. And even Raubahn with all his strength and influence will be hard-pressed to keep his footing on such treacherous ground.
Thus would I ask you to lend him a steadying hand.
You who have endured the wrath of innumerable foes are the one hero in whom I can place my trust. Will you do this thing for me?
I am truly grateful. More grateful than I can well express.
Much of my dread for the coming days has been quieted...
Your Grace!?
Her Grace... The sultana is dead.
Poison in her wine...?
You! You did this!
Spare us your denials! I see no other suspects, and the room has but the one entrance!
I hereby accuse you of regicide! Men─arrest this viper!
<gasp>
Sir. Barring a few exceptions, we have detained all those with allegiance to the Scions. The Rising Stones is also under our control.
And what do you hope to achieve with this mutiny?
Why, that which we have striven for all along, Commander: the salvation of Eorzea.
What is the meaning of this?
Knights from the homeland? This cannot bode well...
Lord Commander. We have received an urgent message from the Holy See.
I am grieved to report that your serpentine foes have resumed their assault. Needless to say, your presence is urgently required. These knights have come to bear you swiftly home to Ishgard.
...A surprise attack?
We've had no such word from our men. And the timing is most fortuitous to catch us away from the city...
Most fortuitous indeed...
Lord Commander, we must away!
You have been a most gracious host. I hope that I might one day return the favor.
Come, Lucia.
Whatever is going on in there...?
Ah, the ever-dutiful Brass Blades. I must apologize, but my dance card is rather full. Another time, perhaps?
Thancred of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn. You stand accused of committing acts of espionage in service to the Garlean Empire.
Espionage? What in the seven hells are you talking about?
Ah. If you're referring to that business with the Ultima Weapon, then you must understand─I-I wasn't myself...
Under interrogation, an imperial prisoner revealed your involvement in numerous dealings with the enemy. We've also been investigating reports that you are a practitioner of forbidden arts.
You'd best come along with us.
You invite me to your party and now you want me to leave? I do so detest receiving mixed signals.
Come, then. I believe I've lost my appetite for this farce of a celebration!
You go too far, Lord Adeledji! By what right do you march armed soldiers into a royal banquet and eject state visitors without Her Grace's consent!?
You treat the Brass Blades as your personal army, and show contempt for the throne with your every act. Leave us. Now.
Is that an order, General? Mayhap you have mistaken me for one of your Flames? You will find I am not so slavishly obedient. And you lecture me on personal armies!
As for your outrageous claim that I have shown contempt for the throne, let all here observe that it was not I who feasted while an assassin removed its occupant!
I expect this is your idea of defending the nation, is it? This and diluting our forces through these distractions in Carteneau and Coerthas!
I do begin to see how the ranks of the Immortal Flames came to be riddled with Garlean sympathizers! You are plainly unfit for command!
Wait... Wait, gods damn you! Your words make no sense. What assassin?
You mean to say you don't know!? We caught the vaunted champion of the Scions in Her Grace's private chambers not moments after the deed was done!
No─ No, this cannot be!
Save your breath. You will need it to plead your case. You and your entire order are to be tried for this atrocity.
Bring in the prisoner!
This woman stands accused of poisoning Her Royal Majesty Nanamo Ul Namo. And as suspected accessories to the crime, all members of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn will be detained for questioning!
This is madness!
What a pity... Who'd have thought your tale would end like this?
Should you demand further proof, a vial with traces of the substance used to poison Her Grace was found upon the assassin's person.
How very convenient.
You would speak of convenience?
Who persuaded Her Grace to host this celebration? A diversion which presented you and your confederates ample opportunity to commit the crime, and a crowd within which to fade from view! A more “convenient” occasion I could scarcely imagine!
How dare you! After all we have done for Ul'dah!
Hold your tongue, witch! I'll not be ensorcelled! I know all about the dark gift that you and your disciples wield!
Oh, yes...I've observed how you worked upon the minds of the Alliance leaders, bending them to your will!
And what of your cordial relationship with Ser Aymeric? For years, Ishgard abjured all contact with the outside world, and now the lord commander of the Temple Knights treats you with the familiarity of a childhood friend!
I'll tell you what I think─I think this desperate defense of Ishgard was but a ruse to deceive us into dividing our forces.
Your next move will be to charm your Coerthan allies into invading our lands!
Now that is truly ridiculous.
How do you even think of this stuff!?
She... She cannot be dead...
Stand aside, Ilberd! I want to see the sultana!
Spare yourself the pain, brother. I saw her with my own eyes.
For a mercy, the poison took her swiftly─her handmaiden can attest to that.
This cannot be...
Nanamo... Nanamo... NOOOOOO!!!
Plainly, the Royalists can no longer be relied upon to keep our nation safe. And so it falls to the Monetarists of the Syndicate to govern Ul'dah. But should you wish to help us, General, we would be more than happy to entrust the task of planning Her Grace's funeral to you.
It seems only right that you should bury your precious sultana, and we will be glad to be rid of that burden.
I'll bet you will. You more than any man.
...Whatever do you mean?
I mean you had her killed, you black-hearted bastard!
What rot! ...Though I did have sufficient motive, 'tis true. That young lady caused me no end of grief.
She always was a most unwilling puppet. I daresay Her Grace was grateful that someone thought to cut her strings.
You would mock her? THEN MOCK HER FROM HELL!
Have you lost your mind, General!? It is forbidden to draw steel in the royal chambers, much less slaughter our fellow Syndicate members!
...You're one of them! You've been in league with the Scions all along!
YOU! You're next, you scheming bastard!
Raubahn!
Seven hells!
