Even if Bakool Ja Ja trusts the Third Promise, I don't know if I'm comfortable discussing this with her...
Everyone looks uneasy, but their faith in Bakool Ja Ja guides them even now.
Wuk Lamat risks her standing in the rite to attend to her people's needs. 'Tis a degree of selflessness few can claim to share.
Not even I imagined that my sister would one day befriend Bakool Ja Ja...
Now we come to the heart of it.
I'm glad Koana agreed to help us.
He's always been good at solving complicated problems. Me, not so much─but I'll support Mamook's people however I can.
By combining our respective strengths, we'll help them discover a new source of hope. I know we will!
All right, Forename. Before we start, let's make sure we're remembering our history correctly.
The Mamool Ja and Xbr'aal fought for centuries over the land in the upper forest. But due to infighting, Mamool Ja forces struggled to make significant gains.
In order to promote cooperation, the Hoobigo and Boonewa clans intermarried─and that's how blessed siblings were first conceived.
With that in mind, let's talk to the people and learn why they rely on blessed siblings.
What is it? There are still people we haven't spoken with.
Blessed siblings promise us more than strength─they promise us the sun.
This forest is dark and inhospitable. When given the opportunity to live in Tuliyollal, most of our people didn't think twice.
Still, the prospect of being among so many outsiders was intimidating enough to keep many of us here.
Blessed siblings are meant to deliver us from this accursed forest─to lead us to the fertile land above, where we might make a place for Mamool Ja to abide in peace and plenty.
So you desire fertile land. One that's all your own...
We've long since given up on anyone understanding our plight.
As you'll have noticed, this forest is very dark. Hardly any sunlight makes it through the canopy, so it feels like it's always night.
We plow, we fertilize, we irrigate─yet our crops shrivel and die as though cursed.
The only one that grows well is najool─Ja Tiika banana in Turali. Try living on that and little else for a few centuries and see how you like it.
A forest where nothing grows... It's not hard to imagine why you'd want to leave.
This forest rejects us. From our doomed crops to those unnatural meteorites─the signs are unmistakable.
This land was once rich with ore, but the Yok Huy did not stop digging until all the veins were spent.
The meteorites are only good for so much. Even if we made overtures to traders, we have little to offer.
Nothing would make me happier than to make a good life for my family in the place where I was born. But that's impossible...
So with resources as sparse as they are, you don't have good prospects for trade...
Trust me. If this forest had anything else others might want, I would have found it by now.
Those who have known only open skies and bountiful land cannot comprehend our plight.
To thrive we must take what we lack by force. And for that, we need the might of blessed siblings.
There have to be other ways to thrive─ways that don't require fighting!
We who live in this forest have precious little choice. We have to fight if we're to do more than survive.
Well, I think I'm starting to understand.
Everyone had their own perspective, but all their concerns were about the forest itself.
Dark, infertile─cursed. Hearing that, it's little wonder that people here wish they had better land. And who better to get it for them than blessed siblings?
It's hard to convince people to stay in a place that can't provide what they need. You'd think the meteorites, at least, would have value, but apparently not...
Hold on. Didn't Erenville mention something about the meteorites? That the aether they emit makes the plants glow blue?
A rather significant physiological effect, I would say. If we were to study these meteorites, we might discover other ways they influence local flora.
I noticed a curious amalgam of tree and meteorite just south of here. Determining precisely how they interact with one another may yield crucial insights.
Everyone, I really appreciate you for sharing your thoughts with us. Thanks to your insights, we have a promising idea already.
We just need a moment to investigate it further, so please bear with us! We'll be right back!
I'll watch over things here while you're away. Go and help the Third Promise however you can.
What a remarkable tree... I hope it will provide us with the insights we need.
At first glance, this forest seems a haven of mysterious beauty. But the reality of living here is quite another matter...
I had known that Yak T'el was battered by a veritable deluge of meteorites long ago, but I never considered how their presence might be affecting the environment...
Plants that shrivel as though cursed... I think I can hazard a guess as to why...
It really is incredible how a tree could support such an enormous boulder.
The meteorite's aetheric emissions are palpable, even from this distance...
Seeing this again makes me feel more confident in sharing a theory of mine. I suspect that only plants with an aetheric affinity to these meteorites can thrive in this forest.
If so, the gargantuan trees that create the dense canopy would by necessity possess the same affinity. As well as the aforementioned najool tree.
Indeed. I should like to analyze samples of meteorite before drawing any definitive conclusions, however.
I carry with me a few devices that will aid in this endeavor, but perhaps you and Krile could lend your expertise as well?
I'd like to join you. The aetheric signature of those meteorites may be crucial in determining what manner of species might fare well here.
Ahhh, I think I see what you're getting at! If we can prove to them the cursed forest isn't quite so cursed, maybe the people won't feel like blessed siblings are their only solution!
So how can I help? Want me to climb the tree and break off a piece of meteorite for you?
There are plenty of fragments on the ground already. It should be enough for our purposes if we gather about five pieces each.
Even better if those fragments are gathered from disparate locations.
I will collect your pieces once you have them.
So the reason this tree grew so big is because of the meteorite's energies?
Too big for our purposes, but a shard of it might do... Erenville, if you would.
I should have brought better tools...
The more fragments we gather, the better. Let's all do what we can!
I have mine already, so let me know when you have yours.
Did you find your fragments?
Much obliged.
Alphinaud, Krile, and I will combine the gathered samples and conduct an analysis forthwith.
Determining the wavelength may take a little while, but I am hopeful that our efforts will bear fruit.
I'll tell my sister to await our arrival at Moxutural Zooj, so go and meet her there. We will return with our results as soon as possible.
Many are reluctant to trust the Third Promise, but all agreed to wait for her return. That alone gives me cause to hope.
If you can truly help us, I'll wait here for as long as you need.
Honestly, I don't know what I hope to hear...
I don't think I trust the Third Promise yet. But if she can offer us some tangible hope, then maybe...
I remain here out of deference to Miilal Ja. As the mother of our chosen one, her wishes deserve to be honored.
We've done all we can. The rest we must leave to Koana and the others.
I don't know the first thing about those Sharlayan devices of his, but if they can be of help to Mamook, I'm glad he has them!
There's hope for this forest yet, Forename. I can feel it.
I'm sure Zereel Ja would have choice words for us if he knew what we were up to.
But his people are my people, and I can't ignore their plight.
If I'm to call myself Dawnservant one day, I have to bring an end to the tragedy here. Many are depending on me, Bakool Ja Ja not least of all.
Anyway, I'm sure Koana and the others will be back with their report soon.
They shouldn't be much longer now!
Good, everyone is assembled. In light of our news, I thought it only right to call the others.
Thanks to the efforts of all, I'm pleased to say our analysis has yielded many valuable insights.
And I daresay the prognosis is hopeful.
Earlier, we asked about the hopes you place in blessed siblings. Why they are important to you.
Your overwhelming response was a frustration towards this forest.
From a lack of natural resources to the inability to cultivate crops, in all respects have you ever struggled to build a prosperous home. Thus your understandable desire for new land.
However, this would be an unfortunate dismissal of what makes your forest uniquely valuable.
That is, the soil. Our tests have proven, without a doubt, that the Ja Tiika Heartland is abundantly fertile.
This may be surprising to hear, as you have seen crops fail time and time again. But we have discovered the root of this problem as well.
The meteorites scattered throughout your forest emit an unusual energy that greatly influences the development of surrounding plant life.
Some plants thrive on this energy─like the najool and the giant trees that create the canopy. But others, as you well know, are sickened by it.
Fortunately, the solution is simple.
Across the salt in a place called Sharlayan, there is a peerless collection of flora sampled from every corner of the world.
Now that we know what energies are most prevalent in your forest, we can offer you seeds and starters guaranteed to thrive here.
I took the liberty of contacting a few colleagues via linkpearl. Should you desire them, a sample of our best candidates can be shipped here in short order.
Just as Eorzea acquired the popoto and tomato from Tural, so too might Mamook benefit from foreign crops.
You mean...we'd be able to grow more than najool here?
Precisely. While care must be taken to choose those species that will not have an adverse effect on the ecosystem, your agricultural options should increase markedly.
With the right crops, Mamook will have all it needs to prosper, both at home and in trade. Blessed siblings don't have to be the answer anymore!
Then...there was never any need to fight? Never any need to sacrifice...
We can't change the past. But we can try to make the future better.
Let the old teachings end with us.
I know blessed siblings represent absolute strength to you. Letting go of that idea can't be easy.
But I'll prove that when we work together, our combined strength can achieve anything!
...Show us, Promise.
If there's another way... For our children and our home... We'll no longer suffer in silence!
Sometimes, we have to fight alone─but not this time.
Would you say a few words, Forename?
The Skyruin!? The great Gulool Ja Ja himself struggled to even seal it!
Saving the star is far beyond the scope of our needs...but I acknowledge the value of allies.
Friends? A perplexing notion from an outsider...but not unwelcome.
We've said what we wanted to say!
Now all that's left is to defeat my father's shade in the Feat of the Brotherhood and clear the way for Mamook's bright new future!
Do not give us cause to question our faith in you, please. Live up to your words.
I will!
After we complete his feat, let's be sure to tell Zereel Ja the good news about his forest. I'm sure he's as eager as anyone to eat what tasty foods they'll grow here!
Compassion even for the likes of him. You continue to eclipse me in every way...
...Then it is a simple choice.
We're counting on you, Wuk Lamat...
Wuk Lamat's gone ahead to announce her readiness.
I never imagined the samples we so feverishly collected for the exodus would find new purpose here...
But if they help these people improve their prospects, all the better.
Anyway, we should go and meet our comrades where Zoraal Ja made his own attempt. The final feat awaits...
Zereel Ja's intention was for this feat to prove the supremacy of blessed siblings.
But Wuk Lamat shall instead prove that there are other ways for Mamook's people to empower themselves.
This feat may bring us closer to the golden city, but for now we must stand strong for the people of Mamook!
I can offer moral support at best. For whatever it's worth. Good luck.
Where did Koana go? Have you seen him?
Someone has gone to fetch Zereel Ja. He should be here soon.
Zereel Ja! I'm ready for the final feat!
Hmph. Grown weary of postponing the inevitable, have you?
Something like that. You see, I've learned all sorts of things about Mamook and your people.
Is that supposed to impress me?
I now understand why I need to surpass blessed siblings.
The cost of producing “superior” offspring is destroying your people's souls. Look at them and you'll see this.
So I'll defeat my father's shade and prove to you that there's a better path for Mamook!
What drivel. Without the blessed, we are nothing but weaklings─doomed to fade into obscurity!
Of course you're weak. We all are, each and every one of us.
But when we join hands, we gain the strength to overcome any foe─even Valigarmanda!
Enough talk. Prove your mettle against Gulool Ja Ja, the finest warrior ever to have graced Tural!
Fine by me. Not even Papa's shade will stop me from upholding his legacy!
I will fight alongside her.
Claimants are not permitted to assist one another, Second Promise. But you may observe your sister's pitiable attempt.
I see. In that case...
It seems I'm no longer a claimant. I am now free to participate, I trust?
What are you scheming?
Nothing. I've simply come to realize who is worthy of following in Father's footsteps.
Not our brother. Not Bakool Ja Ja. And not me.
You have always held the happiness of our people closest to your heart, Lamaty'i. So I will do everything in my power to ensure you ascend to the throne.
This is how I shall repay Father for his kindness. This is how I shall serve Tuliyollal!
I could always count on you, Koana. Thank you.
Hmph. It will make no difference. Numbers matter not in the face of true might.
Gulool Ja Ja, mightiest of the blessed...arise!
Everyone ready?
No hard feelings, Papa! I've got a lot of hopes riding on my shoulders─and the only way forward is through you!
