Dawn may banish even the darkest night...
...The words of a dear friend. I am glad of our meeting.
At the Battle of Carteneau, our leader was taken from us. But we did not stray from our purpose.
We sought out Minfilia and others with her talent, and together established the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.
Along with the Archons, those blessed with the Echo play a pivotal role in our endeavor to forge a brighter tomorrow for the realm.
Oh, I should also introduce you to Tataru, our clerk. She ensures that everything runs smoothly.
Pleased to make your acquaintance!
In time, I hope you will come to think of us as family.
But without further ado...
I would assign you your first task.
Urianger. Have the documents arrived from the Students of Baldesion?
Aye, my lady, they arrived but recently.
We have received a request for aid from the Immortal Flames.
Thancred, would you do the honors?
It would be my pleasure.
Some days ago, a crystal caravan registered to Amajina & Sons Mineral Concern was waylaid and divested of its cargo.
But there is more. Within a bell of the robbery, several people were reported missing from the shantytown outside the city.
At a glance, one would assume the involvement of bandits, kidnappers, and coincidence.
Such crimes are hardly uncommon, and the Immortal Flames deal with their like almost every day.
However, this time we have reason to believe that a primal is involved.
Aye, the evidence left behind implicates the Amalj'aa, who are known worshipers of Ifrit.
If we then consider the objects that were taken, there is no room left for doubt─the crimes were committed in the name of a primal.
That you may better understand the nature of our struggle with the primals, I would have you play the leading role in this investigation.
You have my thanks.
If there is aught you wish to know, I recommend you speak with Thancred. He is well versed in the affairs of Ul'dah.
Ever at your service, fair lady!
Ready to begin, are we? That's the spirit!
So then, your mission is to investigate a crystal robbery and a spate of abductions.
...Crimes which we believe to be connected. Assuming we are correct, it is like that any discoveries we make in relation to one will further our understanding of the other.
Now, since the attack on their caravan, our friends at Amajina & Sons Mineral Concern have doubled security over all their shipments.
In light of this, it is my judgment that the abductions should be our priority.
According to our preliminary findings, the majority of the missing were last seen in the vicinity of Camp Drybone, so that would seem a fine place to begin.
A fellow by the name of Isembard serves as the camp's de facto leader. Pay him a visit, and see that he gives us his full cooperation.
