Arenvald has pressing matters, according to him anyway. A pity he couldn't be here to witness this momentous occasion, though he bids me tell you congratulations.
As for me, well, once the Scions disband, I intend to resume my work in Rhalgr's Reach.
I suppose Arenvald will need support in Gyr Abania too, though he would not admit as much. Well, he will have my help, whether he wants it or not.
Feels a little strange now me linkpearl's gone quiet.
Since my unique skills're no longer needed for the safety o' the star an' all that, I'm goin' to become an adventurer like you─travelin' far and wide!
I Imagine I'll start by headin' to Meracydia or the New World. Just need to find meself a ship first...
Oh, Forename. How are you feeling? Any lingering aches or pains?
I can't apologize enough for sending Zenos to find you in Ultima Thule...
When he came to me in Sharlayan, I was truly torn. As ever, there was only one thing on his mind.
Forced to make a decision, I reasoned that, if he would not be deterred from seeking you out, he might at least aid us in our cause. And so I struck a bargain...
In the end, he was true to his word, and you defeated him despite your earlier exertions. But knowing the state you were found in, it could have ended very differently.
My decision almost cost you your life, and no words could express the remorse I feel...
It is a relief to hear you say that. Thank you.
So did everyone... I'm so sorry, Forename...
Time and time again, I've been made to feel woefully inadequate.
I wasn't much use in battle, nor could I face the Forum without my nerves getting the better of me. It always fell to you and the others.
I must─and will─do better.
And I shall begin with the restoration of the Students of Baldesion. Through our work, Sharlayan will strengthen its ties with other nations, that we may be better prepared to face whatever threats arise in future.
Of course, this isn't something I can accomplish alone. But thankfully, I have the staunchest of help in Raha and Ojika and our other remaining members. Together, we'll continue Grandfather's work.
As before, certain commissions will take us to dangerous locales, and we may need to call upon seasoned adventurers.
In such times, might you be willing to assist us? Not because you feel obliged, mind you, but because you feel allure for the task itself.
Marvelous. Should something of interest arise, I shan't hesitate to reach out to you.
Until that day, I shall endeavor to become a more dependable comrade.
Oh, I should mention that Erenville has kindly agreed to share aught of potential interest he hears from his fellow gleaners.
In exchange, we will help them to restore the archives to their proper order. With the exodus abandoned, all items must be returned whence they came─a task no less grueling than their removal.
Even now, Ojika assists in the sorting of arcane artifacts. Oh yes, not only is he a skilled administrator─he's also a certified appraiser specializing in relics from the Fifth Astral Era!
Despite his qualifications, though, he seems none too keen on the work. I shall have to go and relieve him as soon as I can...
Oh, Forename. Pray forgive me for delaying the gathering.
I was writing a letter, you see. To my parents.
As busy as Father has been, tending the aftermath of the exodus, he has been good enough to show concern for the Scions.
And besides...I've made them worry enough for a lifetime. Henceforth, I will endeavor to write as often as I am able.
A little effort to set their minds at ease while we continue to be away from Sharlayan.
Both Alisaie and I are off to assist with Garlemald's recovery, you see. Though uncertainty remains over what will become of the nation, we cannot well leave the capital in its present state.
We will rejoin those members of the Ilsabard contingent still stationed there. Lucia and Maxima helm the relief effort, with support from our allies─the people of Garlemald among them.
They will gradually be joined by those who have finished treating the tempered across the lands.
Lest you misunderstand, we do not seek redemption for failing Licinia and her sister. That is a burden we must always bear.
Nay, we go because of the truth in Lord Quintus's words.
The truth that, whatever ideals individuals may espouse, nations are not moved to action unless they stand to benefit...
For the foreseeable future, the fallen Empire will be at the mercy of both internal and external forces.
And though I do not doubt the intentions of the contingent, with greater powers involved in the relief effort, our allies may well find themselves drawn into a political agenda.
In going, we seek to ensure that the needs of the people come first. To understand their hearts, that we might better help them to begin anew.
Write you letters? Of course I would be glad to do so...
But I would be gladder still were you to come and visit, and I believe I speak for Alisaie as well.
By all means! Full glad would I be for your visit, and I believe I speak for Alisaie as well!
For fairly as long as I've been in Eorzea, you've been at my side. Watching over me, in good times and in bad.
How many times have we gathered to share tidings... None could possibly keep count.
The world is changing and will continue to do so. Yet no matter what the future brings, I hope that I can ever look to you...
In good times and in bad. As a dependable comrade and dear friend both.
Thank you, Forename. From the bottom of my heart.
I've been keeping Arenvald abreast of the situation in letters, but unfortunately he could not be here today.
When it is convenient for both of us, we should pay him a visit.
Forename! Seen to your preparations, have you?
I'm just making another sweep of my belongings. Wouldn't do to find I've forgotten something halfway to my destination...
Oh, in case you hadn't heard, we've received new reports detailing the devastation caused by the Final Days.
It appears the situation is gravest in the lands surrounding the Bounty, where the sky first began to burn.
After that, the calamity was observed in the far north─in Garlemald and the frozen lands beyond.
We also had reports of the heavens catching fire in isolated locations, one of which was an area in the Northern Empty. Had our quest taken any longer, Sharlayan too may have come under threat.
Thank goodness it's over now.
To be sure, blasphemies and lesser beasts may still be roaming about, but these localized crises should be well within the capacities of each nation to handle on their own. The Scions are no longer needed.
Which isn't to say that we won't help out where we can, of course. As individuals─no more of this order business.
For my part, I'll be heading to Garlemald with Alphinaud. They were among the worst affected, and still need all the help they can get.
It won't be easy...
An inevitable part of aiding those in need is coming face-to-face with tragedy.
Knowing it doesn't make it any easier, though. That I'll curse my weakness. My inability to fix every problem and save every lost soul.
But no matter how much it hurts, I won't give up.
I'll do what I can for as many people as I can, begrudging no effort.
And should I find myself discouraged, I'll remember you. Think back fondly to one of your many moments of triumph and the accompanying determined expression.
Even those that still annoy me in retrospect, like when you activated the teleporter without warning!
And should you hear about me, I want you to remember too.
Remember that I'm out there somewhere, trying my very best.
N-Not that I'm trying to become famous or anything...
That being said...
Heh, you asked for it, so you had better watch out!
Oh, yes!
The next time we meet, I'll be vastly improved. So don't be surprised when you find yourself marveling at me!
Hm, did I forget to mention anything? ...Ah, yes! The Hannish envoy who came to see Estinien also bore a letter from Matsya.
He writes that Mehvan and Qerasaf's little girl is doing well, and he often goes to visit her.
It won't be easy growing up without her parents, but with her fellow villagers watching over her, I dare to hope that she won't want for warmth as she grows up.
Forename, thou hast spoken with our comrades?
Though this parting be not forevermore, 'tis nonetheless occasion for sorrow. Akin to a pixie's path, the navigation of such farewells is a perilous endeavor indeed...
For their part, however, the Loporrits embark upon a new beginning.
Though bereft of its purpose as a vessel, the moon yet remaineth hospitable for the creatures of Etheirys.
Thus do our lunar visitors convene with the Forum, intent upon assigning some new and beneficial role to our solitary satellite.
Yet ere that may come to pass, there is much and more each party must learn of the other─a process which doth promise to be eventful indeed.
To that end, a cadre of Loporrits hath gleefully dispersed across our lands in the name of mutual understanding.
Hydaelyn, 'tis said, did imbue them with Her love for all things born of this star...
...And 'tis Venat's own nature, I believe, which doth manifest in this irrepressible, inexhaustible curiosity of theirs.
Having witnessed that which they strove to achieve, I wish most keenly for their long labors to be rewarded─that their abiding affection for man result in a boon for all.
Moreover, I hope to continue our acquaintance, and share in such knowledge as they see fit to impart...
I...did not wish to presume.
Aye, I would be honored should they consider me a friend.
For 'tis certainly true that I have grown fond of their company.
Dost thou think so?
The Loporrits are certainly possessed of a unique outlook, and it hath been my pleasure to act as their facilitator upon this star.
Mayhap I might yet serve as a bridge betwixt them and our fellow man...as Moenbryda once did for me.
Ah, but I shall digress no further. This day should belong to the Scions of the Seventh Dawn; to mine incomparable companions.
Ofttimes hath mine reticence caused thee grief, and mine actions spurred allies to suspect betrayal...
And yet, here amongst you I still stand. No amount of words could express my gratitude for thine acceptance and forgiveness.
Thus instead, I do proffer my humble support.
Be it unto the deepest abyss or the highest heavens, even if I must needs founder 'cross stormy seas, ever shall I answer thy summons.
I understand that, following thy clash with Zenos, the teleportation device thou had discarded fell to thee from on high.
To return to thee in such a manner... I did confer with Wilfsunn and Bloewyda, yet they insist the device was possessed of no such capability.
'Twas a miracle befitting the nature of that place, where emotion becometh tangible reality. Whence, then, arose this timely wonder? Thine ardent wish...or another's fervent prayer?
Ah, our champion and savior. I was beginning to think my chance for an audience would never come!
...Ahem, that sounded more amusing in my head. Speaking of heads, I was worried about yours─and the rest of you, for that matter. On the mend, I trust?
Glad to hear it. You were in a bad way, and healing magicks or no, I'm impressed by how swiftly you've recovered...
Then again, 'tis hardly the first time you've cheated death. Your strength of will has never failed to astonish me.
Look at what you've accomplished. Meteion defeated, her song of oblivion cut short. The Source and all her reflections delivered from the Final Days.
If you had faltered at the last, then all hope would have been lost. But you held fast.
Now Ryne has a tomorrow to look forward to, and I could ask for no greater gift than that.
As for a lesser gift, however... The next time you see her, I would appreciate you not describing my travel plans with Urianger as “aimless wandering.”
We've a purpose in our roaming, after all: keeping an eye on things in the absence of the Scions on the world stage.
There'll never be an end to the little problems that go untended by nations. We will do our best to help out where and when we can.
...Which I suppose is an approach not far removed from “aimless wandering” when you get down to it.
Perhaps you could tell her I am faring well, and leave it at that, eh?
No need to mention this feeling of being uprooted...
I've never been one to stand still for long, but when I think of home, 'tis the Rising Stones which comes to mind. How many times have we set out from this base, thence to return when our work was done?
On the day the Scions came together, I only hoped for Minfilia to find a place where she belonged...but never did I expect to find one here for myself.
Indulge me, Forename. I have a question for you─and imagine Minfilia herself is asking.
Are you glad you joined the Scions?
Aye, I can honestly say the same.
That's one way of putting it! In many ways, the experience has left us far stronger than when we began.
But all good things must come to an end...at least for a time.
Should you need a helping hand for infiltration or reconnaissance, you know who to ask. I'll come running, and you'll likely get a certain “funny-talking fortune-teller” into the bargain.
In case you've not heard, the Waking Sands will be converted into a warehouse. We'll be keeping the place free of rats and cobwebs, so it can still serve as an outpost should the need arise.
Considering Tataru's ambitions, however, I'd not be surprised if she claimed the lot for her budding empire...
...If you have something to say, then out with it.
You talk as if the Scions' dissolution was more than mere pretense. There may be fewer calls to action, but we should be compensated as before.
...Why are you so concerned for me, anyway?
What, I thought you adventurers had any number of ways to earn coin. And though the Scions' mode of operation has changed, we should be compensated as before.
In any case, I do not want for options. Even if some are worse than others...
No sooner did Aymeric hear about our disbandment than he offered me a position as a guardsman in the Empyreum district. As a former Azure Dragoon, I'm guaranteed to be popular, he said.
Who does he take me for!? Even without his meddling, I'm perfectly capable of finding employment─and have!
Some days ago, a Hannish envoy arrived with word from Vrtra. The wyrm requests my presence as soon as things have settled here.
He didn't deign to mention why I'm needed, but it pertains to dragons, like as not.
In Thavnair, like elsewhere, the phenomena caused by the Final Days abated when you defeated Meteion.
Though it was too late for those who had already transformed, life is beginning to return to normal for the survivors.
Of those who sought refuge in Sharlayan, most have already returned home.
But many do not have a home to return to, nor loved ones. By an arrangement between Vrtra and the Forum, such souls may remain in Sharlayan if they wish, to work and study.
Vrtra was always the satrap in truth. It's gratifying to see him become one in name as well─one who has the complete confidence of his people, if the envoy's tone was any indication.
Hmph, I often find myself speaking favorably of dragons of late...
Not so long ago, I would have assumed his benevolence hid ulterior motives. But 'tis clear he cares for his people, and they in turn revere him.
To know such a nation may flourish is...comforting.
Vrtra's kin sought release from conflict. So weary were they of the suffering it wrought, they surrendered to oblivion.
But Midgardsormr didn't give up. In hope he made the journey to distant Etheirys with his clutch of eggs.
And though his progeny went on to be embroiled in conflict with men, there were times when they transcended hatred to abide in harmony.
That is their legacy and their triumph.
In my lance, I feel the weight of their struggle and the strength of their resolve. And it lends me strength.
These things, I might never have learned had I not joined you.
Should you ever have need of me, I will come. At the very least, it might be an opportunity to earn coin.
Word has it a false deity born in the Tower of Zot has survived, and occasionally appears to terrorize the locals.
Those who vanquish the being and present proof in Radz-at-Han will receive a handsome reward. Though “handsome” isn't the word I would use to describe such outlandish garb...
But while I'm in Thavnair, perhaps I will acquire a set to send to Aymeric in lieu of an answer to his job offer. Let him stand guard thus attired and be the talk of Empyreum, if not all Coerthas.
Oh, are we saying our farewells, too? I hadn't, at present, planned on a journey of any great length...
...Not that I am averse to a moment or two of quiet reminiscence.
In fact, there was something I'd been meaning to ask you─something that has been in my thoughts since the last flames of the Final Days subsided.
During our travels, we have witnessed more than a lifetime's worth of oddities and spectacles. More than can be easily recalled or remembered...
And nestled amongst those memories are certain essential facts─the history of Etheirys and the ancients; glimpses of the Ea─of their culture and philosophy.
Rather than simply hoard such treasures in my mind, I wonder if I should not be disseminating them in formal records for wider consumption.
When needed, I have penned reports and prepared briefings... But ever have I balked at the idea of binding the subject of my studies in a book or tablet.
Truth is given shape in interpretation. When we seek to capture it with our words, it is invariably molded to fit a narrative─no matter how well-intentioned the rendering.
An event is described as “sad.” A summation which fails to express the emotional complexity. Yet the word on the page is what endures. A pale shadow of reality.
Throughout history, some have deliberately embellished the truth, but I believe many─if not most─deviations are the result of similar linguistic shortcomings, piling one upon the other, until the end result is unrecognizable from its origin.
Which is why I fear that writing an account in my own words would be akin to diluting fine wine with water.
Yet even with the potential for corrupted meaning, I do of course realize the importance of keeping written records. Without them, my search for wisdom would be a painful affair indeed.
But what say you on this matter? Should I take up the quill? Reflect upon those experiences only we have shared, and seek to preserve them for posterity?
Very well, then. I shall endeavor to pen what I can of the Ea, and the ancients, and of so many other wonders.
But I am no scribe. It will be less a polished work, and more a reordering of scattered notes...
Very well, then. I will refrain from publishing any formal work on the Ea, or the ancients, or on any of the wonders we encountered.
I will, however, need to keep a few notes for future research. The passage of time can warp the truth just as surely as a poorly chosen word...
In any case, I feel much better for having sought your opinion. Left to our own devices, we tend to overthink such things.
I will otherwise return to following where my curiosity leads. After all, a safe method of travel to the First yet eludes me, and our venture into the great expanse has prompted an entirely new set of questions!
Should you stumble into the unknown, or struggle with some impenetrable mystery, know that I am at your beck and call.
It never hurts to see things from a different perspective, and mine is rather different than most!
Lyse came to visit the other day. She peppered me with questions about the lasting repercussions of the Final Days.
I took the opportunity to explain our plans to “disband,” and she understood our reasoning immediately. Once a Scion, always a Scion, it would seem.
She was eager to relive old times, and remember old friends... Bittersweet memories, mayhap, but from the look on her face, the joys outweighed the sorrows.
Oh, Forename. Might you have a moment to talk?
With the Scions stepping away from the public eye, I've been left to consider what new endeavors I might pursue.
And after speaking with Krile, I've decided. I will be assisting her in rebuilding the Students of Baldesion.
Not only am I indebted to Master Galuf for giving me a new home, but had our order never existed, I would have never set foot within the Crystal Tower.
How different my life might have been...
I would have never met you. Never become caretaker of the tower. Never become a Scion.
You gave me the chance to do so much good, and I hope to continue to do so with the Students.
For an added benefit, new mysteries often find their way to our doorsteps─mysteries that could prove ideal for fulfilling our promise: to embark on a new adventure together, unlike any we've experienced before!
Whenever you have the time and inclination, my friend, I stand ready to accompany you unto the unknown!
...Do you recall in the realm of the Omicrons, when I asked if you thought I may someday be mentioned in your epic?
While 'tis true that to earn a place at your side would be the stuff of dreams...
In the end, nothing would give me greater joy than to stand with you in the here and now!
It needn't be some grand endeavor. There needn't be a promise. Whenever adventure calls, I won't hesitate to invite you...and I hope that you will do the same for me.
Hah, I'll hold you to that!
I know, I know. I can all but hear Lyna and Beq Lugg's voices each time you remind me.
...As much as we have already seen, there's still so much we haven't. Who knows─perhaps we will even encounter survivors of the Omicrons somewhere out there.
After all, given how they took to the stars, it isn't implausible that some found themselves far from home.
And should we encounter a wayward traveler awaiting commands that will never come...
I would bid them seek adventure with someone, and with that partner find new purpose. A new dream.
For if crystals can hold fast to dreams, why not Omicrons?
Wherever your plans may lead, do not hesitate to send word. And should a commission of interest come my way, you will be the first to know!
By the way, have you spoken with Feo Ul of late? Some days ago, they appeared to me in a dream─of the sleeping persuasion, that is.
All is well in the First, they bade me tell you.
When I asked why not tell you themself, they unleashed giant, ravenous beavers upon me... Have you perchance done something to incur their ire?
Spoken your fill, have you? If so, I'm thinking to send everyone off.
With your permission, then!
Your attention please! At risk of spoiling the mood, the time of departure is upon us.
In my capacity as your receptionist, I bid you all safe journeys. Till next we meet...be well!
I suppose we're off to Garlemald, then.
Though we ought to speak with Lord Aymeric first. If he's received word of any recent developments, we need to know.
'Twould be prudent to purchase some warmer clothes at least. Mayhap we can pick up a few souvenirs for Jullus and the others while we're at it.
Where will you all be heading next?
Dravania. There is a book I have been meaning to borrow from the Great Gubal Library.
And I can think of at least one person who will be most displeased should I fail to visit before leaving.
We've no particular destination in mind, but we do intend to stop in Sharlayan before we set off.
We had thought to ask after the Loporrits. I am curious as to how well those who chose to remain are adapting to their changed circumstances.
Might we accompany you, then? Raha and I were planning to return to the Baldesion Annex.
Commissions have been piling up in our absence, and they must be dealt with ere we begin our work in earnest.
Estinien. You will return to Radz-at-Han, will you not?
Aye. For Vrtra's benefit, though I've yet to hear the details. I may not stay long.
I see. Then it is here the Scions at last part ways, each to some far-flung corner of the realm.
Perhaps. But I believe one of our number─a rather important one, at that─has yet to divulge her plans.
Quite right.
Indeed...
Fair point!
So. What's next for our humble adventurer?
So. What's next for our humble adventurer?
So. What's next for our humble adventurer?
The constancy of this place never ceases to amaze me. An ocean of souls, shimmering and eternal.
And yet...something stirs...
Yes... Steeped in darkness deep as starless night, the beast hungers.
Alas, I dare not investigate in earnest before the coming of my guiding star, as she foretold.
We shall descend to the depths, you and I, to confront the dread beast Pandæmonium.
Oh, the sights we shall see. The sights we shall see.
Oh, the sights we shall see. The sights we shall see.
Forename, how lovely to see you!
If you're not in too much of a rush, I was about to make a pot of tea. Would you like a cup?
Take a seat, then, and I'll find us something to nibble on as well.
It's so much quieter these days without everyone around...
...Not that I'm pining for your return, you understand.
I have my sources, and I know that each and every one of you is doing well and keeping busy with your endeavors!
Meanwhile, I'm left with a surplus of free time─and the question of how to make the most of it!
What about you? Any plans for the immediate future?
Traveling to the edge of existence and back wasn't enough!? Well, if that's the case, I might have a suggestion for you...
I hope you weren't thinking of asking me for advice! Though, if you are open to suggestions, I might have one for you...
After what you went through, I'm not surprised you need a moment to think. But if you're open to suggestions, I might have one for you...
You've fought bravely and selflessly, helping those in need and saving our star from unimaginable threats.
For your deeds, you've been hailed as the champion of Eorzea and a host of other incredible things. But why not put those titles aside for a while?
Acquit yourself as a simple adventurer again, and travel the world in search of wonder!
That's the spirit! I can feel from here the blazing fire that just lit in your belly!
Now all you need is a destination.
If you're having trouble deciding, just leave it to me.
Ahhh, with so many exciting places to choose from, it's hard to narrow it down...
But I believe I have the perfect destination in mind.
If you're having trouble deciding, just leave it to me.
Thavnair─that's where you should go next!
I doubt you were able to squeeze in a proper tour of Radz-at-Han the last time you were there, what with the burning skies and rampaging monsters and so forth. And I'm sure Vrtra would be pleased to see you!
Then there's the Bounty itself. The Empire's presence in the region was always a deterrent to exploration, so if you've a mind to sail that sea, now's your chance.
Just think of all the new experiences you could have!
Tell me, have you been to the ruins beneath the waters of the Bounty?
As the bearer of Azem's crystal, you may consider your duty to see at least that much.
Oh, I know that look! That's an adventurer ready to take on the world!
In anticipation of an occasion like this, I was planning to gift you a new set of traveling clothes, but it's, uh, still a work in progress.
Shouldn't take much longer now, though, so sit tight, and I'll have the last few bits sewn up before you can finish another cup of tea!
Stitching here and trimming there, knot the threads with love and care...♪
Just a little more to go! I'm sure you're still brimming with excitement!
Hee hee! I am one with the needle! See how the fabric surrenders to my whims!
Don't worry, I'll make sure the lining has plenty of pockets for all your little “treasures.” I swear, adventurers are worse than children when it comes to hoarding every feather and leaf and animal hide they come across...
Oh, we mustn't forget the waterproofing. Gods forbid you forget to disrobe before plunging into the sea. Or a river. Or a piping hot bath...
