I thought Ishgardians responsible for the disappearance of our scouts, but I see now that I was mistaken.
Just as Roaille observed. The Warrior of Light is wont to appear at the most inopportune times.
The Warrior of Light? She who bested van Baelsar!?
It would seem that the famous hero of Eorzea seeks Azys Lla as well.
Hardly unexpected. The secrets of the Allagans' power to bind eikons to their will could scarcely fail to interest the Scions of the Seventh Dawn...
You know as well as we what will ensue should these insatiable creatures be allowed to roam free─that their very existence threatens the life of this star. We but disagree on the solution to the problem.
Genocide has ever been the Empire's favored recourse─and that is why we will continue to oppose your every attempt to claim Eorzea!
You do not hesitate to speak your mind...even when your every word could be your last.
Alas, your sentiments betray the narrowness of your view. The fate of Eorzea and its inhabitants is of little concern next to the fate of the world.
'Tis my solemn charge as emperor to bring the eikons to heel. If this requires the extermination of certain elements, then so be it.
No, don't! They are not his thralls!
Where did that come from!?
Take cover!
Your Radiance, we must withdraw!
We shall meet again, Warrior of Light. On that you have my word.
So Garlemald, too, has designs on Azys Lla... But why would the Emperor himself elect to lead the expedition?
Never in my wildest dreams did I think I would stand less than twenty paces from the Emperor of Garlemald... Varis zos Galvus in the flesh...
I assume the commander that accompanied him must be the legatus of whom the centurion spoke...
Ah, forgive me. This is neither the time nor place for such idle speculation. Pray return to the Enterprise at once. It occurs to me that our friends may have run afoul of imperial forces as well.
I have yet to apprise Chief Sonu of all that has occurred, but once I have, we will rejoin you at the airship.
Thank the Twelve you're alive, Forename! When that battleship appeared and fired on the village, we feared the game was up for you and Alphinaud. What in the seven hells happened out there?
First the archbishop turns up with an Ascian in tow, and now the godsdamned Emperor pays us a visit!? What is this, a procession of notable bastards? Who's next? The Keeper of the Seventh bloody Gate!?
No one so “notable,” Master Garlond.I am happy to report that the Zundu were overjoyed to learn of Bismarck's demise.
Chief Sonu sends his warmest regards, Forename. There was much talk of westerly winds.
Miraculously, none suffered lasting harm during the raid. It would seem the Zundu were taken entirely unawares, and wisely chose to offer no resistance.
I sense they have no more to fear from the Empire, for the present, at least. Had the Emperor truly been intent on their extermination, Ok' Zundu would already have been leveled. Plainly, Varis is only interested in reaching Azys Lla.
Speaking of which, if you're all ready to continue the chase, the Enterprise is as well. Shall we?
Lest you wonder, Wedge was able to calculate the heading indicated by the beam of light emitted by the key. If Azys Lla lies in that direction, we'll find it.
The Soleil may have a lead on us, but she's no Enterprise. We'll catch them─you'll see!
I did not think that I would ever have occasion to pilot a suit of magitek armor again─least of all under these circumstances.
My full name is Lucia goe Junius, and I was born a citizen of Garlemald.
Ah, that explains it! When we first met in Ishgard, I very nearly called you Livia.
Livia...? Livia sas Junius? The tribunus who served under Gaius van Baelsar!?
Aye, she was my sister─though we spent little time together. After our parents were killed in an uprising, we were sent to live in different households, setting us on separate paths...
Livia felt at home on the battlefield and chose to become a soldier, while I underwent training to become a spy.
Then...Ishgard was...?
My mission. 'Twas believed that Allagan relics of great worth were stored in the Vault, and I was sent to investigate.
Though I was given little information at the time, I now suspect I was searching for the key we but recently lost. And then I met Ser Aymeric.
'Twas his usefulness to my mission which prompted me to approach him, but I soon found myself drawn to him for other reasons.
He too was a prisoner of his past─judged for his heritage as a bastard son of the archbishop. Yet unlike my sister and I, he did not curse his fate. He simply rose above it.
In time, I came to realize that I had found a man worth following, and a new home besides. And when I subsequently confessed all to Ser Aymeric, he was good enough to accept me into his service.
...I do not question your loyalty to Ser Aymeric. 'Tis your loyalty to your sister which concerns me.
I have long been of the opinion that those who dwell in the past risk losing sight of their future.
My sister fought for her convictions, and for those she held dear. So do I. So must we all.
Well, I for one am happy to welcome a fellow Garlean to our merry band─especially one who can make magitek armor sing!
Chief, we should be getting close.
Once we break through those clouds, we'll be right where the light was pointing─right where Azys Lla should be!
Hold on, everyone!
Look! I think that's it!
Chief, is that...?
Allagan, aye. There's no mistaking their handiwork.
What was that!?
Some sort of barrier!?
She won't hold, Chief! She's breaking up!
I've lost the auxiliary propeller!
Cid, it's no use! We must return to Ishgard and find another way!
Damn it all! Why do the Allagans always have to make everything so bloody complicated!?
Ack! And we'd barely finished repairing the damage incurred during our skyfishing trip. On the other hand, any landing you can walk away from, as they say...
I can only presume the Soleil passed through the barrier unscathed. That would certainly explain why the Vanu called it a key...
Assuming Cid is correct─and I have no reason to think that he is not─the Vanu's key is required to pass through the barrier protecting Azys Lla.
But even without it, we must find a way to reach the isle. I shall have everyone convene at the Seat of the Lord Commander, that we might discuss how best to proceed.
As before, make yourself known to the guardsman when you arrive, and he will show you in.
Ah, you are returned! Ser Aymeric and the others await you within!
...In summary, the isle owes its lofty position to the industry of the Allagans. And we can be all but certain that the archbishop and his cronies are enjoying the view from its top.
I see.
If we are to join them, we will first need to pass through the isle's aetheric barrier─which is, alas, more powerful than most. Powerful enough to make a mess of a perfectly good airship, at any rate...
As far as I can gather, the barrier mechanism draws aether from the surrounding environment, and polarizes its elemental aspect to produce what is, in effect, a wall of lightning.
It seems plain that without the Vanu's key, any attempt to reach the isle will end in failure.
Alas, the key was careless enough to leave without us, and I don't think the Vanu keep a spare.
Master Garlond─based on your experience, is there no other way that we might breach the barrier?
Well, in the past, we've beaten similar barriers by nullifying them with elemental converters.
But the one we're up against this time dwarfs aught we've encountered before. The Enterprise simply isn't large enough to bear the requisite amount of crystals.
I am reminded of the quantity needed to nullify Leviathan's command of the sea... A veritable mountain of crystals that could only be borne by lashing two galleons together to form a “twin vessel” scarcely able to propel itself, much less fly.
That said, we're not without options. If it isn't feasible to nullify the barrier, we might try piercing it.
How?
We create a ram of condensed aether and mount it on my ship. There's just one problem─I don't have the faintest idea how to build one. It's going to take a true authority in the field, I reckon.
Would that the Archons were still with us...
But yesterday evening, I chanced to find Mistress Tataru in unusually high spirits. Assuming I understood her excited ramblings correctly, she has acquired a clue pointing to the whereabouts of one such individual.
An Archon!? Truly!?
Hah, fortune favors the righteous, eh? Well then, let's not waste any time. While you go and look for our missing friend, I'll work on modifying the Enterprise. Her hull will need reinforcing to bear the punishment, not to mention a mount for the ram.
Just you wait, my pretty─by the time I'm finished, you'll be an airship reborn!
Welcome back, Forename! How goes the mission? Did you manage to catch up with the archbishop and his cronies?
So, you finally arrived at Azys Lla...only to find your way barred by some sort of barrier... Typical.
But it's not all bad news! I've made progress in the search for our friends! Don't worry, Forename─we'll get to Azys Lla yet!
When you fled the victory feast, you used the ancient watercourse beneath the city, right?
Well, shortly after things went back to normal in Ul'dah, I asked Marshal Tarupin to have the tunnels searched.
A logical place to look... It was there that you lost contact with Minfilia, Thancred, and Y'shtola, was it not?
Dare I ask what the marshal found?
Um...I don't actually know. Pipin's message just said that there had been a discovery, and that we were to come to the Hall of Flames at our earliest convenience.
I dare not think what it might be... We shall depart at once. Tataru─let Urianger know to join us in Ul'dah. He will wish to be present as well.
Yes, sir!
We are grateful for your assistance, Marshal Tarupin.
You saved Her Grace and Father both. 'Tis the least I can do to repay you.
Forgive me my impatience, Marshal, but your missive mentioned a discovery...?
Yes, of course. As per your request, I had my men scour the waterways. Almost immediately, we encountered a difficulty: an entire section of the tunnel had collapsed.
With the Mineral Concern's cooperation, however, we were able to remove the rubble, which yielded the battered bodies of a dozen Crystal Braves.
Go on...
Be at ease, Master Alphinaud─your friends were not among the deceased. That alone is cause for hope. And then there is this...
<gasp> Y'shtola's wand!
I had assumed as much.
If I may, Marshal...
'Tis as I did surmise. Judging by the aetheric imprint that lingereth yet upon this wand, it hath assuredly been employed in the casting of a most uncommon magick.
Namely?
The very first that man did conceive to traverse great distances, and the ancient precursor to all methods of travel that utilize the Lifestream: Flow.
The spell entaileth the reduction of the corporeal form into its constituent aether, that the caster might enter the Lifestream, and ride its currents thereby. Unlike the teleportation magicks of modern times, it requireth not a lengthy incantation. That Y'shtola should choose to employ such a spell bespeaketh the need for haste.
All of which would suggest she managed to escape!
Would that it were so simple. Know that the scholars of Sharlayan forbade the use of this spell─and with good reason.
The caster hath but limited control over his course. For every mage who came safe unto his destination, another would be set adrift in the Lifestream, never to emerge.
What? No! No, you can't mean...
Be not downcast, my friends, for there is yet hope. 'Tis like that Y'shtola's passage hath left traces in the Lifestream. Could we but follow these from the point at which the magick was invoked, we may yet find her.
To the Sil'dih excavation site, then. Our thanks for your aid, Marshal.
Do not mention it. I shall pray for Lady Y'shtola's safe return.
Evidence of Y'shtola's passage will have been made faint by time. But mayhap some few scant traces yet remain to guide our steps.
The trail leadeth to the north and east...
...Unto the bosom of the Twelveswood.
Are you certain?
Aye, there is no mistake─thither hath Y'shtola journeyed.
And yet the Gridanians have reported no sightings. We must take this to mean she is still adrift.
If it be so, I do fear for our friend. Contrary to its name, the Lifestream is more akin to a raging torrent. Linger overlong in the midst of this maelstrom, and the aether that formeth one's soul shall surely be scattered, ne'er to be reformed.
We have no time to waste. Urianger─pray explore all possible options for reversing the effects of this forbidden magick. Forename, Tataru─we three shall press on to Gridania and petition the Elder Seedseer's aid.
It is said that the elementals perceive the Lifestream. If, as we suspect, Y'shtola is still adrift in its midst, they may be able to find her. But if we are to appeal to them for assistance, we must needs do so through their chosen─the Padjal.It is imperative therefore that we speak with Kan-E-Senna without delay.
I have already requested an audience with the Elder Seedseer. She will receive us in the Lotus Stand presently. We need but speak with the conjurer yonder to be admitted.
The Elder Seedseer awaits. Pray follow me.
Be welcome, my friends, and speak freely. I gather your suit will admit no delay.
It will not, my lady. Pray forgive the abrupt nature of our request, but it is a matter of life and death.
I see... As you say, we must needs act swiftly if we are to free Y'shtola from the ungentle pull of the Lifestream.
And as you have surmised, we cannot do this unaided. However...
In requesting the elementals' assistance to find Y'shtola, you must needs be aware of one difficulty─a difficulty born of the fundamental difference between man and elemental.
That being...?
In perceiving the world around him, man relies upon senses such as sight and sound. For the sake of convenience, he gives names to such things as are near or dear to him.
Being formed of pure aether, however, such concepts are foreign to the elementals. Instead, they perceive by observing the ebb and flow of the energies of life.
So profound a division cannot be bridged with simple discourse. The elementals' voices stir not the air, and thus reach not our ears, while our words are but wind to them.
Though we seers can commune with them through feelings, naught that we can impart will serve to aid them in identifying Y'shtola. Nay, they must needs be presented with aether which is akin to hers. If you could but find a family member...
Oh, I know just the person!
Y'shtola has a sister who came to live in Gridania. She told me about her once.
That is most fortunate indeed! Pray seek this sister out, then, and bring her to Everschade.
There, we shall petition the great ones' aid in finding your lost companion.
I was not aware that Y'shtola had a family member here in Gridania. How very convenient. Forgive me... I have grown so accustomed to being laughed at by the fates, I cannot help but mistrust them when they smile on us. We must, of course, seek the woman out at once.
If memory serves, Y'shtola's sister is named Y'mhitra. She's supposed to be a member of the Sons of Saint Coinach.
Anyway, she spends most of her time around Apkallu Falls, from what I recall. Let's look for her there!
