<click> <click> Welcome to our hive, hunters. You have brought delicacies much sought after by our people, and we are much pleased. What would you have in return?
Honored elder─pray allow me to begin by thanking you for welcoming us into your home, and for accepting our humble offerings. My companions and I are come in search of knowledge─specifically, knowledge of your people's god.
Knowledge alone? What strange hunters you are! But if it is words you desire, then words you shall have! We are the Vath─the Nonmind─and to speak is our fate!
You will hear the tale of the Gnath's god─of the god the Onemind summoned into our midst.
The “Onemind”...these are the Gnath who reside in the main colony?
Yes, they are one. Connected. But let us begin the story at its beginning...
Some moons ago, a single dragon flew in from the east, bleeding and weak. It fell from the sky and into the hive, where it was swarmed by my brethren. And with spear, and spell, and musket, the dragon was slain.
'Twas likely one that had fled battle with my kinsmen. I should commend you for finishing the job.
Dragons are fierce and terrible adversaries. The Onemind would always cower when their winged shadows passed over the ground. But no longer─they had learned that a battle-weary Dravanian was easy prey.
Thus did the Overmind decide to heed the words of the black-robed men. The Onemind would call forth our god, and unleash His blades upon the dragons...
Dravanian lands would become Gnath lands, and ever larger would grow our domain.
But our god ever hungers. The price He demands in crystals far exceeds the rewards for this war. We of the Vath despise and revile His insatiable existence!
I call upon the power of a primal for the greater good...conscious all the while that I do so at grave cost to the land. I reason that it is a necessary evil, and willingly shoulder the burden of my sin.
In suggesting that such crimes can be justified, you may argue that I presume too much─but you must surely see that I am aware of the magnitude of my transgressions. Not so the Gnath. They summon their deity for no greater purpose than to expand their dominion.
To a Scion of the Seventh Dawn─one sworn to eliminate the primal threat─the distinction you draw seems questionable at best. But the fact remains that my own grandfather risked unleashing the power of the Twelve in an attempt to prevent the Calamity. Thus, while I may not condone your actions, I at least understand them.
Not so the Gnath, as you so rightly put it. If they truly seek naught but territorial gain, I can only conclude that they are ignorant of the ruinous consequences of their god's insatiable appetite. The longer this primal is suffered to exist, the greater the suffering it will cause. It must be destroyed.
How lightly you propose the destruction of this god, Master Alphinaud─a being of whom we know naught. Has it occurred to you that you may be sending the Warrior of Light to her death?
No, I─ <sigh> ...You have the right of it, Estinien. 'Twould seem it is I who am guilty of presuming too much.
Pray forgive me, Forename.
Wait. Forename need not face this foe alone. Like her, I am blessed with the Echo's protection, and may do battle without fear of primal influence. Let me bear this burden.
Ha! Do you truly imagine yourself a second Warrior of Light? Remind me: how many primals have you faced, my lady? Not that it matters─we know not where this god resides, or how to challenge it. Unless you mean to pray until it appears?
Hm. Estinien makes a valid point. Let us speak with the Vath, and learn how best to secure an audience with their deity. In this, at least, I may be of assistance.
The young lord certainly appears eager to prove his worth...
