Who are these impudent louts? I do not recall requesting their presence.
Lord Vauthry! What is the meaning of this? Why is this poor man bleeding to death on your floor!?
Why? You ask me why? Because criminals must be punished, and this man is guilty of fraud.
He came to us claiming to be a man of business, yet his subsequent conduct has shown him to be anything but!
Eulmore is a city built on love for one's fellow man. Those who have naught to give and live only to take are a blight upon our society!
To atone for this crime, I ordered that he fling himself from the balcony.
And he had the temerity to weep! “Please, my lord! Anything but that!”
What then is a man of mercy to do, but offer the sinner another way to show his contrition?
"Another way“ meaning what, exactly!?
Sin eaters are part of Eulmore's society. But they must be fed with aether─living aether.
So─I demanded an offering of flesh! Carved by his own hand, from his own hide!
And still! Still, he could not do as I asked!
A wholly unsatisfactory performance!
'Tis true that Kai-Shirr won his place here by fraud. But his actions were driven only by a desire to share in your paradise.
That you would cast him out I could almost accept, but to humiliate him thus? To demand his very life!? Is this truly the way of Eulmore!?
Oh, you dim, deluded child... Have you ever paused to consider what it takes to maintain such a paradise in this barren, broken world of ours?
The guarantee of safety and stability. The knowledge that if one only abides by the rules, one has naught to fear.
I alone can offer these things, for I alone can command the sin eaters.
And thus am I alone the voice of justice─and any who oppose me villains to be punished!
And people call this paradise...
You were granted a place in my city for a particular skill. What was it?
...Painting.
Oho, an artiste! Then you shall paint a picture for me. Of Eulmore.
If I find your art pleasing, then I may excuse this display of insolence.
Who gave you permission to tend to that criminal's wounds!? I told you to paint me a picture!
What you need is a mirror, not a painting. It will capture the horror I see before me far better than I ever could.
Can you walk?
I think so.
Did...did that little worm just insult me?
I─I─I'll kill them! I'll─I'll kill them all!
I'll enslave their minds! I'll─I'll torment them─torture them! Then tear out their hearts!
...
Forgive me. In my anger, I seem to have marched us back outside again...though it is probably best we leave the island altogether. I believe we've worn out our welcome in Eulmore.
In any case, I've seen enough of the world's self-proclaimed “capital city” to convince me that our battle against the sin eaters will find few allies in Kholusia.
I will accompany you back to the Crystarium. We need to regroup and think on our strategy anew.
Kai-Shirr, I have done you a grave disservice.
You were hungry and desperate, and I offered you a solution without once considering the risks inherent in you accepting it. If I had but known the price you would be made to pay...
You gave me everything I needed to make your idea work. It was me who made a mess of things, not you.
But even after all the trouble I caused, you still stepped in and saved me. And now Lord Vauthry wants us all dead...
Why not come back with us to the Crystarium? I am certain we can find work for you there, if you are willing.
No...that would just be me leaning on your kindness again.
I need to do some thinking─learn how to stand on my own two feet.
...Very well. But you must promise you'll be careful. The Eulmorans may yet come looking for us.
I'll keep my head down, don't worry. And you take care too. Give me the chance to repay what you've done for me.
<huff> Alph... <puff> Alphinaud!
Lord and Lady Chai...
What in the blazes did you do!? They have the entire city looking for you!
...I took a peek at your unfinished portrait, Alphinaud.
Now I've had many a beautiful and striking picture painted for me, but there was something about your work... It was as if you had caught the very essence of our love, and rendered it naked upon the canvas.
It was bold, unflinching...and I adored it. Please, you must come back with us and finish what you began! I will speak with Lord Vauthry, and vouch for your character. I'm sure we can smooth over any hard feelings!
I am sorry, Lady Chai. There are more important matters to which I must attend.
More important? What could be more important than enjoying the days we have left to us to the fullest?
Pray press me no further. We are leaving. But I would not presume to take the garments you were so kind as to procure for me. One moment─
<gasp> I wouldn't hear of it! Keep the clothes, you silly boy─I insist!
And I shall make arrangements so that you can pass through the gate without causing a stir. I expect you to come and visit.
I will return, I promise you that. The outrage I witnessed must not go unanswered.
The next time we meet, I shall be better prepared to confront the corruption which hides behind the glittering facade.
Thank you, my friend...for staying at my side through this whole sordid endeavor.
Whilst not quite the joyous outcome I had hoped for, our efforts have nevertheless answered a great many questions. Suffice it to say, our plans for saving the First are unlikely to involve the aid of Lord Vauthry and his subjects.
Come, we must speak with the Exarch and chart a new course. This is far from over...
Do you have business with the Crystal Exarch? Just say the word, and I would be happy to escort you to the Ocular.
Ahhh...it is good to be back amongst friends. In such company, I can finally turn my thoughts to the future. But ere we discuss all we have learned and begin planning our next step, I think it best that you visit Alisaie.
Her familiarity with Amh Araeng will no doubt provide us invaluable insight, and besides, I know she is as eager to see you as I was.
Bring a smile to her face, Forename.
Ahhh...it is good to be back amongst friends, not to mention my dear sister. I have not seen her for some time, but I gather she is as keen to press on with our plans as I am.
And you've seen quite a lot of the First yourself now─more than enough to appreciate the scale of the obstacles we face. Let us lay our discoveries before the Exarch, and discuss what must be done.
Ready to depart for Amh Araeng? Alisaie will be overjoyed to see you safe─I know she was particularly concerned for your well-being.
She, uh...impressed upon me how regrettable the timing of her summoning was. Repeatedly.
I only hope that my part in sending you to her will garner me some measure of forgiveness. Here. This is a letter of introduction addressed to a man named Cassard, the master of a merchant caravan.
There are few who know the ways of the desert as well as he does. Find him at the Amaro Launch, and he will see that you reach your destination.
