I shall not speak ill of the Convocation─they too seek only to secure the future of our star.
Yet it is plain they will not countenance a permanent solution. That being the case, we must ask ourselves a simple question: are we prepared to pursue our chosen course, even should it mean suffering the eternal condemnation of our brethren?
If so, I see no further reason to demur.
Let us bring forth the Light that shall ever after keep the Darkness in check.
So...it was they who first summoned Hydaelyn.
Their discussion did seem to imply as much, yes. I cannot say I have ever heard of this “Venat” before.
For a certainty, Emet-Selch never uttered the name, speak though he did of the schism which Zodiark's advent wrought upon mankind.
Some were of the viewpoint that His power must needs be restrained, and to that end did they call forth She who would serve as His shackles.
We know now that it was this Venat to whom they looked for leadership.
And that this place, in all likelihood, served as their headquarters. The presence of such intimate records attests to that.
I would hear what else they have to tell us. All of it. Did anyone see the source of the image?
The device there? Then let us see what other secrets it holds.
Venat, please... Why must it be you?
If I may speak plainly, I would sooner it were another─any other. You are our leader. None can take your place.
You know as well as I that but few support our cause. Far fewer than they who place their faith in Zodiark.
If Hydaelyn is to stand a chance of opposing Him, I am the only one who might suffice as Her heart.
Rest assured, however: I shall not vanish from this world. The form I take shall ever remain my choice.
...Then I will press you no more. Only know this...you will be sorely missed.
I wonder...is this how the Convocation felt about Elidibus?
What?
Forgive me, but did that not strongly imply that Elidibus sacrificed himself to become Zodiark's heart?
Seven hells... Then who─or what─are we dealing with?
The device appears to activate via a form of aetherial attunement, not unlike an aetheryte. Beyond that, I can say little for certain, save that we should take this opportunity to see what other records it contains.
No response. Confound it.
If I may, milady─the panel did formerly emit a soft-yet-perceptible glow. That it doth so no longer may betoken the depletion of some essential energy within.
Given how long it has lain dormant, I think it fortunate it functioned at all.
That may be, but if we can't get it to work again, we'll be leaving with more questions than we've answered.
The white-robed emissary hath ever named himself “Elidibus.” Yet if the shade spoke true, Elidibus ceased to be ere even the sundering came to pass.
This calleth to mind a truth that Emet-Selch did once reveal in passing─that the names by which we know our foes are not those given to Ascians at birth. Rather, they are titles of office, afforded to individuals of merit at such time as the role becometh vacant.
Perchance the Elidibus at Zodiark's heart and the emissary with whom we are acquainted be not one and the same, but predecessor and successor.
It's possible. If the previous Elidibus perished before the Final Days, the one we know could still be a survivor of the sundering.
And yet...something in that explanation rings false.
I will remain for a time. I would not abandon my attempts to revive the device so soon. There is more to learn here─I can feel it.
In matters of aetherology, I know of none as capable as thee. If there existeth a means to learn more, thou wilt surely find it.
Whilst thou art thus engaged, we shall attend to matters on the surface.
Can we but uncover Elidibus's true origins, we may yet come to understand his designs. To that end, Y'shtola must needs be afforded as much time as she doth require to complete her investigation.
...To the extent that such things are within our control, yes. Speaking of which, perhaps we might trouble the Exarch for news of his progress with the spirit vessel?
He will no doubt wish to hear of our own discoveries as well, such as they are.
Dare I ask what's going on?
Ah, excellent timing. For me, in any case. We have a problem.
The vast majority of those gathered here are presently in the employ of the guard or else one of the facets...and no longer wish to be so.
In principle, all are free to change vocation at any time─but a city does require a certain number of people in these positions if it is to continue to function. For the moment, I have asked them to postpone their resignation until such time as replacements can be found.
As you may have surmised, we have the “Warrior of Light” to thank for this...
It's you! The Warrior of Darkness!
You understand, don't you?
Someone's going to have to look after this place once you're gone. We just want to be ready to do our bit when the time comes.
And not only here, but everywhere! Which is why we've got to get out there, and lend a hand to those in need.
That's what you did, isn't it? Even if it was just little things, at the start. You helped people.
And we're trying to do the same! We may have our sky back, but there's no shortage of people who still need help.
And we're trying to do the same! We may have our sky back, but there's no shortage of people who still need help.
Strong and silent─just as a hero should be! You let your actions speak for you, and we mean to do the same. We might have our sky back, but there are still people who need help.
If we follow in your footsteps, then I choose to believe we too can be heroes one day. Even Warriors of Light.
What are we to say to that? We can hardly tell them they are mistaken.
They seek but to do good, as you have.
But no more can we stand idly by and suffer a Paragon's scheme to proceed unchallenged.
