Open fire.
How...unbecoming...
Only death awaits...
Not good! Hold on, I'm coming!
That's her─Vergilia!
Here—this should keep you in the fight!
Thank you!
My hunger is far from slaked!
We will not succumb!
Could you be my...?
Do not fall behind!
All must bow before the Sun!
Now that's taken care of, it's back to the fray!
Ha! Naught but child's play!
Easily evaded!
Prepare salvo...
Is everyone all right?
Take position...
Fall back!
Keep the war machines at bay!
Kneel or die!
Prepare salvo...
Think you can kill me!? I would like to see you try!
Think you can kill me!? I would like to see you try!
Haha! More fodder for my flames!
So many... At this rate, we will be overwhelmed!
I will not fall so easily! These curs will taste my wrath!
I will not fall so easily! These curs will taste my wrath!
More of them! Quick, lend Sadu a hand!
Make way! These whelps will rue the day they crossed my path!
None shall escape my chains! Now is your chance to strike!
Tremble before the Sun!
Hahaha! May your screams fill the air!
Bwahahahaha!
Hah... A worthy adversary!
Rest. Recover. Reclaim yourself. Then we will fight again─to the death.
Sadu Khatun!
That was the last of them...
The day is ours, thanks to your timely arrival. What of the supply caravan?
Hmm. Outmaneuvered, but not outmatched. Good. Let us take the imperials into custody and rejoin our comrades.
And soon we shall arrive at the capital...
“So cold and unforgiving.” Thus spoke Emperor Solus as he gazed upon his barren domain.
Eight hundred years it had been since the Garleans first set foot here.
Bested by the Corvosi after centuries of war and driven from fertile southern pastures into the blasted northern wastes.
In that garden of desolation, they clung to one another for warmth. Freezing, hungry, desperate. Hated.
The chosen forsaken.
In the year 1513 of the Sixth Astral Era, a young legatus named Solus single-handedly sparked the magitek revolution.
How did he conceive the machina that feed on ceruleum?
Once a common, soft-spoken soldier—how had he so quickly ascended through the ranks?
Like so many others, those who knew the truth are gone.
Taking in the capital with his eyes for the first time, I recall thinking to myself...
“Far colder on the earth than in the heavens.” Yes, far colder indeed...bitterly so.
Not so much as a whisper...
The roads leading beyond the city walls would have been used less in recent years. Nevertheless, this was one of the most important gateways into the capital.
Abuzz day and night with activity, aye. Merchants passing through the checkpoint, many of them stopping at the local hostelries.
Surely, they cannot all have been tempered...
We can consider the question after we have made camp.
If we spend any longer outside, we may well freeze to death where we stand. The tempered imperials, too.
This will be our temporary base of operations. Secure shelter for ourselves and the injured, and dispatch scouts to survey the surrounding area.
If we're plannin' on stayin' here a while, we ought to give this place a proper name.
Hmm... The constant sound of ice cracking underfoot makes me think of broken glass. An apt name, perhaps. But enough of this. To work, everyone!
Sorry, I'm feeling...rather unwell.
Our comrades certainly haven't wasted any time establishing a base of operations...
Once everything is in place, we will discuss our next move.
We've asked the Ironworks members and some of our other comrades to stay with the airships. In the event we are discovered, we must be ready to move them swiftly to a safer location.
This is all that remains of Laterum... Homes become empty husks. If this is the state of the outlying villages, I dread to think what has become of the capital.
Raubahn taught me a lot about military strategy during exercises in the Fringes. Coordinating units with wildly different capabilities, surveying and securing hostile terrain, that sort of thing. Now, I have the chance to put his teachings into practice.
Vergilia is in our care, along with the rest of the tempered. “Glory to Garlemald, glory to Garlemald,” they still whisper in their sleep, even as they writhe in pain...
The tempered soldiers are sleeping soundly while they undergo treatment. There are too many to attend at once, but I and the other healers will see to all eventually.
Hells' bells, this place is bloody freezin'! Rather be tied to the topmast in a storm than suffer this cold any longer! Anyone what can spare a swig o' rum? That'll sort me right out!
Shouldn't be long before we have a half-decent camp with so many helping hands. I was concerned the snow might hinder our progress, but our Ishgardian friends are used to working in conditions like these.
In spite of the obstacles we've faced, our plan proceeds apace. Just a little farther and we will reach the capital itself.
Still, we mustn't get ahead of ourselves. As soon as the camp has been made fit for purpose, we are to discuss a course of action with Lucia.
Would you mind asking Y'shtola and G'raha to join us in that building to the northeast of the camp? Alisaie and I will meet you there.
A meeting? Yes, I'll make my way over once my head has cleared.
In truth, I've been feeling out of sorts since we arrived. The air is thick with a palpable aura of malevolence...
'Tis the monstrous tower on the horizon. Jagged, hideous, unholy... Even at this distance, its presence is overwhelming.
Much like the sensation I felt in the Tower of Zot, only far more terrifying. Aether flows unceasingly towards it, converging into a swirling mass of unfathomable power.
...For a blessing, the constant chill in the air is helping to anchor my senses in the here and now. Tell the others I shall be with you in a few moments.
You will be pleased to know most of the tempered have been quartered inside the nearby buildings and are receiving treatment as we speak.
I do however feel no small amount of guilt for commandeering civilian homes. The occupants may be long gone, but everything is exactly as they left it...
Considering the length of time that has clearly passed since, one would expect to find them ransacked. Strangely, there are no signs of anything having been stolen.
It's possible that everyone fled at the first sign of trouble, though it seems to me they left far too many useful possessions behind... Aye, although there is no conclusive evidence, I strongly suspect they were tempered.
Sorry, I was merely thinking aloud... You mentioned a meeting? I will make my way there.
Thank you for informing the others of our meeting.
When everyone is here, we will begin.
Our present situation is as follows.
Efforts to aid the people of Garlemald have begun in earnest. Moreover, having entered into the capital, the imperial palace is within our reach.
But before we proceed further, we must learn what has befallen this city, for therein lies the key to understanding and combating the Telophoroi's designs.
I have a suggestion, if I may.
Several of the imperial soldiers we captured on the Magna Glacies are members of the Populares and acquaintances of mine.
Once we have cured them of their tempering, they should be able to give a reliable account of the events leading to the capital's downfall.
A promising idea. I will assist the healers in their ministrations.
Of course, I will require a porxie of my own, assuming you can spare one.
Would you like a hand?
No, no, I am sure we will manage. Better that you take my place in the field. The noxious aether of this place disagrees with me, and as I shall need to draw on my own for the treatment, 'twould be prudent for me to remain within the camp.
This talk of curin' the tempered is all well and good, but I reckon the cold is a more pressin' concern.
All the houses 'round here are fitted with ceruleum heaters that could keep us warm and toasty. Problem is, the machines seem to have given up the ghost─and if we keep sittin' around, freezin' our arses off, we'll be next.
My smiths reckon that with the right parts, they can have 'em workin' again, but it won't be easy.
Understood. The machinists will assist them in the repairs.
The rest of us should either stand watch or survey the area.
We have made our presence known to the Telophoroi. They will be searching for us─if they have not already ascertained our position.
That we have seen no sign of them since the battle suggests they have yet to do so. However, I suspect they may be biding their time...
...Or perhaps we are beneath their notice.
In any event, we'll find no answers standing around here. Urianger, Estinien, and myself have visited Garlemald recently, so we'll lead the reconnaissance efforts. Perhaps bolstered by a few Bozjan and Dalmascan scouts from my previous excursion for good measure.
Don't forget about us Ala Mhigans. We have experienced scouts of our own.
Well now, this is turning out to be a rather sizable team. With such numbers we should be able to cover a wide area with relative ease, including that surrounding the imperial palace.
How about you, G'raha? I've a feeling we'll find a use or two for that vanishing spell of yours.
'Twould be my honor to be of service, though I doubt that you of all people need rely on my tricks.
That leaves us with guard duty...
As a matter of fact, I have something else in mind for the two of you and Alphinaud.
Between here and the center of the capital lies the Eblan Rime. I would have you search the area for survivors.
Your keen sense of direction honed in your extensive travels should prove useful in navigating the ice fields.
I have faith that you will, and look forward to greeting you on your safe return.
This too is a vital task, and I appreciate your willingness to see it done. Rest assured that a serving of hot soup will be waiting for you.
Hmm. As ever, you do not want for enthusiasm. But given your experience traipsing about through Coerthas, I should be surprised if you let a little inclement weather dampen your redoubtable spirits.
And even if that were the case, the promise of hot soup upon your return would surely spur you to action.
You all have your duties. Let us make haste. May the Fury bless and keep you.
It was not the Garleans who named this place the Eblan Rime, but rather nomadic peoples in times gone by.
When my ancestors were forced to migrate here, they refused to accept this land as their new homeland. As such, they made a conscious decision to retain the original name.
Though the meaning of “Eblan” has been lost over the years, it has been theorized that it refers to the harsh conditions here, in much the same way the Magna Glacies was named. One thing, however, is certain─both regions are equally hazardous, so I bid you take all due care.
Thancred and the other scouts are all equipped with linkpearls, that they may communicate with us in case of an emergency.
Of course, we would all prefer they not place themselves in danger to begin with, but such is the nature of their work.
There's this odd perception that Ishgardians have lived their whole lives in the snow, but it really wasn't that bad before the Calamity. And afterwards, well, I was rarely more than a few paces from a raging fire...
This dreadful place, on the other hand, is nothing but cold, cold, cold! And it's my understanding that Ilsabard has always been this way. Gods, can you imagine!?
The machinists reckon all the interior heatin' was just left there consumin' ceruleum till there was none left. There were even pots sat on stoves, all the food inside burned to soot.
In any case, even if we had plenty of fuel, it's the magitek itself that's buggered. We'll have to either look for spare parts or make them ourselves.
The tempered are being treated here. Some of the allied nations' best conjurers are tending to them, but it does not seem like everything is progressing smoothly.
What's more, some of the Garleans are prone to violent outbursts from time to time caused by their condition, which is why we're here.
I'm rather looking forward to hearing the songs of our comrades' homelands. I love a rousing melody no matter where it's from!
Once the Garleans have found both their strength and their footing again, I shall ask to hear a song of their people, one that conjures visions of home.
Most of the members of Lente's Tears and the Bozjan Resistance have joined the other scouts in the field.
And since Lyse and Pipin's troops are already keeping an eye on the airships, we of the Steppe shall guard the camp against intruders. Though in truth, it is we who are intruding in these lands...
Standing atop an enormous edifice to cast their eyes down upon their dominion... These Telophoroi and the Oronir have much in common, yet even Magnai and his ilk would not stoop to stealing the minds of their subjects and enemies.
When the time comes to storm their stronghold, I shall lead the charge and leave naught but ash in my wake!
Searching for survivors? Hmph. If they are truly strong, they will not require our aid. While you are gone, we will guard the camp against any man or beast foolish enough to challenge us.
My duty as sentinel will afford me little opportunity to seek my Nhaama, though perhaps one among our ranks─come bearing a hot meal or such─will prove worthy.
I've never thought myself much of an explorer, though I suppose my adventures have taken me to all sorts of strange and distant places. With that in mind, traversing an ice field should be a simple feat!
Gods be good... If it's this cold with Tataru's clothing, I dread to think how we'd fare without it! I must remember to thank her when next we meet.
It makes me realize, too, that while the people of Garlemald have spent their whole lives in conditions like these, even they'd be hard-pressed to survive away from the warmth of their homes. If there are any survivors, we must find them, and quickly.
So, it's into the Eblan Rime we go. But where do we even start looking in such a place?
What ho, chums! Been given something to do, have you? As it happens, I too have been ordered to make myself useful!
Sounds like rather a tall order...
Ahem. Since you ask, we're to scour the Eblan Rime for survivors.
What!? Wander around ice fields on the off chance you'll find someone!?
You'd take forever to finish the job without the benefit of my expertise─or more specifically, my telescope! Come friends, I know just the spot to begin our search!
...I'll probably regret this, but we may as well humor him.
I'm surprised by how many wild beasts there are roaming about the place. Perhaps now that the soldiers have gone, they're free to wander and forage as they please.
The few buildings I can see don't appear to be residences. They may still warrant investigation, though.
I spy with my little telescope...
A massive...sheep-thing? Or maybe it's a cow? Not what we're after, either way....Is that an aether current? Ah, no, just a wind sprite.
Hmm... Other than that, it's all snow, snow, snow. But lo! What do I see o'er yon hillock?
There's no mistaking it. That's a girl.
A survivor!? Show me!
Over there, behind that tree. It looks like she's running away from something...though surely not us? She wouldn't even know we're here unless she had a telescope like mine.
All I can tell...is that...she's wearing a pale green dress...a rather fetching one, at that!
She'll be long gone by the time we get anywhere near, but we should be able to follow her footprints.
I'll let Lucia know where you're heading.
Oh, and take these warming tinctures with you!
The poor girl must be chilled to the bone, if not on the verge of freezing to death.
That's...actually very thoughtful. Thank you. But won't you need some for yourself?
No, no! I'll be fine! As a man of chivalry, my honor demands I do no less. And lest we forget, the very reason we are here is to protect those in need.
Now go, and godsspeed!
Why are you still here!? If you dally any longer, you will miss your chance to play the hero!
Hmm... Other than the footprints, I see no signs of recent activity.
According to the label here, this place was used by those involved with extracting ceruleum...
According to the label here, this place was used by those involved with extracting ceruleum...
According to the label here, this place was used by those involved with extracting ceruleum...
We're getting closer. I'm sure of it.
At first, we thought she'd gone inside the building, but the door doesn't look to have been opened in some time.
She might still be nearby, so we'll keep looking around here.
Then again, it's also possible that she ran right past this place. Would you mind searching up ahead?
As Emmanellain said, it's highly unlikely she was running away from us.
Even so, we mustn't do anything to startle her. For all she knows, we're soldiers of an invading army, so we need to be careful not to give the wrong impression.
Even so, we mustn't do anything to startle her. For all she knows, we're soldiers of an invading army, so we need to be careful not to give the wrong impression.
Even so, we mustn't do anything to startle her. For all she knows, we're soldiers of an invading army, so we need to be careful not to give the wrong impression.
