Thank you for putting forth Khalzahl's name. Those whose lives he enriched will take comfort in seeing his legacy honored.
You will forgive me for not speaking sooner, but I bear a message from Archon Y'shtola. She asks that you meet her at the High Crucible at your earliest convenience.
Understood. Thank you.
Y'shtola must have finished her study of the voidgate. Shall we hear what she has to say, then?
I will go with you.
I thought the satrap would be too busy setting up the foundation...?
My clerks have been the well-oiled cogs of this administration since before Ahewann assumed the office. They understand what needs to be done.
And I am curious to learn what conclusions your Archon has reached concerning the gate's unique construction.
As you wish. Allow me to lead the way, Your Excellency.
You can find your way to the High Crucible, I trust? I must rejoin my unit and assist with bringing the city's orphans under our care.
Shall we hear what your scholarly comrade has to say?
For one who claims it is “too late” to save his sister, Vrtra seems awfully interested in whatever revelations Y'shtola might have to share.
Right─here we all are.
You discovered something new?
I took a closer look at that device. I was able to determine how it keeps the voidgate sealed, but not how it might instead be employed to expand the opening.
For that, I would need to reference the technique developed by Vrtra's alchemists─no records of which appear to have survived the intervening years.
We know this, so why have you sent for us? Have you learned aught of value or not?
Patience, good ser─one must introduce the subject before launching into specifics.
From what we understand, travel between worlds is accomplished by passing through the nebulous rift which exists between them.
Picture, if you will, the moment you were called to the First.
You touched a focus of some kind to help the Exarch pinpoint your location. His summoning spell then channeled the energies of the Crystal Tower to begin your journey to his world.
The magicks tore a hole in the wall separating Source and shard, and cast you into the intervening nothingness.
In that place, the laws of nature hold no sway...
Yet even through this realm of temporal and spatial instability, you were borne safely to your destination in the First.
The feat that guided you across such an unimaginable distance─both physical and metaphorical─was nothing short of a miracle.
Then what of the many voidsent found in the Source? Who guides them here, and how?
An excellent question.
Though there are several methods by which the void's denizens might intrude upon our world, the rituals of summoning are the most typical.
For example, let us consider the gargoyle─a creature of middling power.
To call upon such an entity, the prospective summoner must force open a voidgate.
The portal lasts but a moment and is relatively small, allowing only an imp or other lesser being to squeeze through with their physical body intact.
Our more powerful gargoyle, however, is too large for that. Creating a gate big enough for him would require vast amounts of energy─far beyond the reserves of any one mortal practitioner.
Instead, 'tis far more common to bring over only the entity's soul. We had a taste of that ourselves when a certain Exarch dragged us to the First.
And just as our bodies remained in our world, the voidsent's physical form is left behind in the Thirteenth.
Once at its destination, the summoned soul is granted a temporary shell to inhabit. In the gargoyle's case, a stone effigy has proven a suitable vessel.
Wait─you said that voidsent must be called here deliberately by someone in the Source─reeled in like a fisherman with his catch?
Exactly. For a being to navigate the chaos of the rift, with or without form, there must needs be a guiding agent on the other side.
When the hordes poured forth from Allag's great gate, it was the technologists who drew them through.
Though to my knowledge, planar fissures are, in essence, natural passages between our world and the void, which require no such guidance to traverse.
Why is only the boundary between the Source and the Thirteenth so fragile? So much so that it often tears open of its own accord...
I believe solving that mystery is key to understanding travel between the Source and its reflections.
And how do you intend to get your answers?
...No, the danger is too great!
Perhaps. But what some call “danger,” others think of as “adventure.”
Were you not listening to my tale? Never mind that the means to expand the gate has been lost to the ages.
Even could you force the portal wide enough, you would be greeted by an army of murderous horrors the very instant you stepped through.
I assure you I was most attentive. And I agree that to go alone would be certain death.
But if I were to bring along one who has already braved the Thirteenth and humbled the Cloud of Darkness─well, I imagine my chances would be much improved.
I had a feeling you might say that.
Since when were you one for the quiet life?
Once again, I put my life in your ever-reliable hands.
That said, as much as I would like to march straight back to the voidgate, there is the small matter of being unable to open it without the satrap's personal authority...
As I've said before, I will grant you and yours any boon you choose to name...provided it does not endanger my people.
You have my word that we will take every precaution─not a single voidsent will be allowed to threaten Radz-at-Han. Assuming we manage to expand the portal in the first place...
You have a plan?
Actually, I had hoped you might help us with that. I presume the alchemists you retained supplied you with some explanation of their methodology?
That they did. House Daemir was overseeing the project...
Daemir, Daemir... Ah, yes, the family associated with the Great Work.
I did not fully comprehend the theory, but their research began with a voidsent which had slipped through the fissure.
After a thorough examination, they created an arcane simulacrum possessed of similar qualities. A man-made voidsent, if you will. It was apparently indispensable in their efforts to enlarge the gate.
...A man-made voidsent?
Yes. Being great admirers of the Archons, House Daemir submitted detailed notes to Sharlayan's official committee. They expected praise and accolades for their simulacrum...and were thus devastated to be informed that their work had been classified as prohibited material.
If that's true, then those notes might still be stored in a forbidden archive somewhere. Not Gubal, of course, since that library had yet to be built. Which leaves us with...
Yes, it may very well hold a copy.
Indeed. Noumenon's restricted stacks may very well hold a copy.
Have you already forgotten G'raha's debacle in Noumenon?
...The restricted section where he was caught sneaking about? It may very well hold a copy of the Daemirs' documentation.
In which case, I say we head directly to Sharlayan.
Unless you anticipate needing help to reach the high shelves, I see myself being of little use. Go on ahead. I still need to find Mehrahd and tell him about the Khalzahl Foundation.
Let us be on our way, as well.
They are resolved to venture into the void. Do I sit idly by...?
...
If we're to enter Noumenon's restricted archives with a minimum of fuss, then we must secure the permission of the Forum.
First, however, we shall need to enlist the cooperation of a member to broach the matter on our behalf. Who do you think might be inclined to assist us?
No one springs to mind?
Hm... What of Scholarch Montichaigne?
He did come to G'raha's defense during the inquiry, after all.
'Tis settled. Let us head to Phenomenon and see if he's willing to help us once more.
If I was pressed to name our allies in the Forum, Scholarch Montichaigne would certainly be at the top of the list. Hopefully he agrees to aid us with our request.
Need to be somewhere? Very well, I will wait for you by the aetheryte.
Oh, not to worry─I had plenty of reading to keep me occupied while you were busy. Shall we continue?
I apprenticed to Master Matoya at the age of seven, and labored under her tutelage for a full decade. I never had the chance to attend the Studium...
Neither did Thancred, as I recall. Soon after Master Louisoix took him in off the streets, he was put in the care of another Archon. His was a rigorous and practical education in the arts of espionage and survival.
I sometimes wonder what my life might have been like had I pursued studies here instead...
Oh, that does sound lovely. Afternoons with friends spent sipping tea and debating theories.
...Still, I wouldn't give up my time with Master Matoya for the world.
The dank cave I studied in was about as far from the bright, airy halls of academia as one could get. But it was a wondrous, magical childhood nonetheless.
Oh, never mind me. 'Twas just an idle thought.
Archon Y'shtola wishes a word with me? Then I shall eagerly await her arrival!
Ah, visitors! And quite esteemed ones at that. What may I do for you?
Pray forgive the intrusion, Scholarch, but we were hoping you might help us secure permission to enter Noumenon's restricted archives.
Oho! No furtive forays into the stacks this time, eh?
I applaud this newfound sense of propriety. Yet in all this wide world of comparative serenity, what so compels you to disturb a vault of forbidden wisdom?
Fascinating. I had no idea such a technique existed.
I would've been surprised if you had. If my assumption is correct, the research left behind by House Daemir has lain dormant in Sharlayan's archives for many centuries.
And if you unearth this research, what then? Surely you don't intend to cross over into the void?
That is, in fact, precisely what we intend.
...To what end, pray tell?
To develop a method of traversing the rift, for one, that I might keep my word to a distant friend.
Sentiment aside, I have journeyed to the end of existence. I have heard, felt, and thought endlessly about the truth of our world and the echo of its future. And yet I want to understand everything─to unravel it all down to its very last secret.
What scholar worthy of the name wouldn't force open a voidgate or two if a grand revelation was the promised reward?
Hahaha! Marvelous!
An audacious proposal worthy of Master Matoya herself!
And after hearing the whys and the wherefores, I for one do not believe you would use the knowledge for ill.
I see no reason not to present your request for the Forum's consideration.
Although... Your petition would be better received if you also had the support of another well-placed acquaintance.
Why, Master Fourchenault, of course! He can hardly ignore an earnest request from his dear children's most treasured comrades.
I was hesitant to approach him directly, but there is no denying that having Master Fourchenault on our side would tip the balance in our favor. Very well. We will pay a visit to the Leveilleur estate and plead our case.
Ah, one last thing before you go. I would consider it a personal favor if you might share with me the discoveries you make in the void.
My appetite for knowledge is every bit as insatiable as yours, I'd wager, so if you could see your way to indulging an old man's curiosity...?
Of course, Scholarch. We will be sure to pass on any revelations.
The Forum can be a cantankerous beast─one needs a persuasive voice to get it moving in the desired direction.
Montichaigne seemed optimistic, but I doubt convincing Fourchenault to champion our cause will be as simple as showing up on his doorstep.
