Ah, 'tis thee, Little One. From above, I did mistake thee for a Gnath. 'Tis well I chanced to look again, or thou wouldst now be ash.
Dear Vidofnir...how I have missed you. Would that I had come sooner...and not out of dire necessity.
Thou art troubled. Speak, that I might know thy plight.
Thou wouldst have Father admonish his brood-brother?
I would end this war without further bloodshed.
How am I to believe thee, Little One...when thine own companion beareth Nidhogg's stolen eye!?
Have care, dragon...or I shall gouge out one of yours.
You forget yourself, ser! We are here on a mission of peace!
My sire's will forbiddeth me from inviting discord to our home... 'Tis for this reason, and no other, that thou still drawest breath, knight.
Vidofnir, please─we must be allowed to convey our intentions to Hraesvelgr in person, with words of our own choosing.
Grant us this favor, and open the way to Sohm Al!
Thou hast ever been welcome, Little One.
...But I cannot grant thy wish. I am bound to remain here, and protect my kin from the Gnath's god.
The Gnath have summoned a primal!?
Pray excuse my forwardness, but if we were to eliminate the threat to your territory, would you consent to Lady Ysayle's request?
Ha! Dost thou imagine thyself equal to the task─to succeed where dragons have failed?
'Tis beyond thee, mortal. But thou art welcome to try, nonetheless. Only know that idle promises shall avail thee naught!
It would seem we have no choice but to make good on Alphinaud's offer. Why must our every bid for peace breed yet more war?
So, the Gnath have summoned their god... And thus is the mystery of their newfound belligerence laid to rest.
Are you not glad, Lady Iceheart? I thought you would applaud them for summoning a primal to further their own ends. After all...you did.
I did not reach out to Saint Shiva to further mine own ends! I desired her strength only to forge anew the peace between man and dragon! But what a fool I am to speak of peace to you─a bloodthirsty savage who murders without thought or compunction!
Enough! Enough, I say! If the Gnath have truly brought forth their deity from the aether, we must face it together or watch our hopes fall apart! All now rests upon this primal's defeat.
...But ere we think of confronting it, we must first study its origins. What is the nature of this god? What manner of faith sustains its existence?
...My apologies. You are right, of course. Let us return to Tailfeather and consult with Marcechamp─he knows more of the Gnath and their culture than most.
Oho! Back already, are we?...Hm? Ah, met the Gnath, did you? And what is it you'd like to─
Summoned a primal, you say!? Seven hells... Well, I don't know bugger all about Gnath religion, if I'm honest. Beyond their tradin' habits, there never seemed much point in askin'.
But it shouldn't be that hard to find out. From time to time, we barter with a small hive to the north and west of here─outcasts from the main tribe, from what I understand. I reckon they'd be willin' to tell you a bit about 'emselves...if you give 'em the right incentives.
That sounds promising. And what exactly would a Gnath consider to be “the right incentives”?
Oh, nothin' your average hunter couldn't scrounge up in a day or two. But seein' as you're in a hurry, you might want to divide the chores amongst yourselves. You'll want a good-sized jar of landtrap nectar, a basket of caelumtree fruit, and─always a Gnath favorite─a generous portion of young nanka flesh.
I shall gather the fruit─leaping to the lower branches of these forest giants should present little challenge to me.
Then I shall collect the nectar...with Master Alphinaud's arcane assistance.
An' that leaves you to bring home the meat. You'll need to carve it from the smaller nankas that live in the rivers─three big hunks should be enough, I reckon.
Once you've got everythin' together, you'll need to set it down at what we call the “tradin' post.” Here─I'll mark the spot on your map for you.
You have been most kind, Master Marcechamp.
Well, then! Let us attend to our respective tasks, and reconvene at the trading post. I need hardly add that the last one there is a rotten nanka egg!
I was able to gather a goodly amount of nectar from the landtraps─though I would not have known how to harvest it without Ysayle's help. Do you have the nanka meat?
Splendid. I shall put this with Estinien's fruit and assemble a suitably generous-looking hamper for the Gnath.
Well, everything appears to be in order. Assuming no one has any objections to my choice of presentation, I shall place our offerings at the trading post as instructed. Were I of the Gnath, I think I would be suitably impressed.
Well? How long must we wait? Should we have sounded a signal or some such?
Calm yourself, Master Alphinaud. Our offering has not gone unnoticed.
