Aye. It began with a quarrel between the imperials and the Qalyana.
The Qalyana are another Ananta tribe─the strongest and the most influential.
Unlike the Vira, they want no part of our troubles. They swore fealty to the Empire and were content to remain within their borders.
Jussst ssso. The Qalyana forsssook their pride and the fight, and yielded to Garlemald long ago.
But then a new commander was sssent to hold the black bridge.She demanded the Qalyana sssurrender a hossstage, thisss Butcher.
Fordola. It doesn't make sense, though... The Vira are the ones working with the Resistance. Why would she threaten the Qalyana?
Because she is ignorant, like all imperials. She knows not the difference between Qalyana and Vira, nor does she care to learn.
I see. All Fordola knew for sure was that the Resistance would come fromthe west. She reasoned, therefore, that if the Ananta on the east bank turned their coats, she would be trapped. I take it the Qalyana had no choice butto oblige her.
No, they did not. The imperials left with the Qalyana broodmother's own daughter, Anamika.
Long days and nightsss she looked out on the black bridge, weeping for her child. Until you came.
The broodmother knew at once which way the winds would blow. She and her warriors met with the fleeing imperials in the road and demanded that her daughter be returned.
Bad idea... Fordola's not the kind to take threats lying down.
You know her well. The Butcher turned her blade to Anamika and bade the Qalyana move aside.
But the broodmother would not yield.
I know where this is going...
The Qalyana sssurrounded the imperials, one of whom, whether out of fear or ssstupidity, cut the child down. There was naught that could be done.
What madness...
The true madnesss was yet to come. For in her dessspair, the Qalyana broodmother cried out for her daughter to be ressstored to life.She bessseeched Sri Lakshmi's intercession.
She summoned a primal, then and there?
That she did, if only for an inssstant. Bereft of courage and honor,the broodmother sssought sssolace in her faith.
The imperials fled in terror at the sssight of the goddesss, abandoning these lands to the Ananta...
Now the Qalyana bid usss make pilgrimage, to pay proper ressspectsss.Yet though we Vira revere Sri Lakshmi as the holiessst of the holy, we will not prossstrate ourssselves before Her.
And so you turned to us.
Aye. All who have fought with the Resissstance have heard tell of the warrior. The eikon-ssslayer.
I believe we have heard enough. Inconvenient though the timing may be, if a primal has indeed been summoned, we can scarce afford to ignore it.We must needs discuss how best to resolve this situation.
Ahem. At the risk of sounding hopelessly naive...there may yet be a way to avoid a violent confrontation.
In the past, I fear I have been rather too willing to accept that we have no other recourse than to risk our lives─or rather your life─to address these threats.
Yet the primals we have faced thus far have demonstrated a variety of temperaments and objectives. Ravana may delight in battle, but Ramuh would sooner keep to the forests with his children.
Ere we decide to challenge Sri Lakshmi, it would seem wise to learn more of her nature from those who summoned her unto this world.
If that is your will, then ssso be it. To the north will you find our village. Sssarisha shall unfold all.
We shall leave at once. M'naago, can you inform our comrades at the bridge of what happened?
Of course. Be safe, my friends.
