I'm sorry, I... I just want to be left alone...
My best friend and I...we fled the village together... One of the beasts took him, and...and...
It was all I could do to run. All the while...I could hear this monstrous voice screaming my name...
Hmm? This is for me...?
Ahh... We used to drink chai together often. Shared stories over steaming cups after a hard day's work.
Thank you, friend. The pain may never pass, but I must press on all the same. For his memory, and for we who must remember...
Many thanks for the chai. It helps me to remember him as he was, cup in hand and a smile on his lips...
Thank you for delivering the chai, Forename. Did it help to lift the villagers' spirits?
That is heartening to hear, indeed! The Final Days show no signs of abating, but that is all the more reason that we must try to keep our composure.
Our lives have been forever changed. The people we have lost will never return to us. These tragedies will long weigh on our hearts...
But we have the capacity to live with our suffering. To carry the agony till we too join the fallen in death.
It is not a surrender, but a recognition. For it is only in acceptance that we find the strength to move forward.
Hardship is an inescapable part of life, we believe. And so our traditions teach us how we might overcome these trials. Perhaps this is why we are quick to adapt to new situations.
As you have finished your deliveries, might I talk with you for a moment? I was curious to know...what has become of Mehvan and Qerasaf's remains.
Oh, thank you, friend. Surely, they will be able to rest peacefully by each other's side.
I and the people of Palaka's Stand will perform the rites as soon as we are able.
As for the child...it will not be easy for her, growing up without her parents, but I promise to do what I can. Once she is able to eat solid food, the fish I catch will help nourish her.
Well, we've finished delivering the chai. I do believe everyone has a piping hot cup.
I could almost believe there's a magick at work, how their tension fades with every sip. Let us pray that Palaka's Stand has seen the last of those transformations─at least for now.
They are still at risk─as every village in Thavnair, like as not. Still, I trust we can leave this place in the care of our friends from the Radiant and the High Crucible. Shall we return to Radz-at-Han?
By all means, do not let us keep you further! There are still many who have need of your wisdom and strength to deliver them from this terrible calamity.
And I will do what I can as well! I will bring rations and supplies from Akyaali─we have plenty to spare.
Then let us find Estinien and be on our way. Where did he wander off to again?
The Wakeful Torana? Near the bridge to Radz-at-Han, as I recall. Very well, then.
Worry not─my colleagues and I will watch over this village when you have gone. And should my research bear any new fruit, you shall be the first to know!
When you and your friends entrusted me with the child, I was beside myself with fear. In bringing her back safe, however, I realized I was capable of so much more than I ever believed.
Nothing could be more terrifying than that moment I faced the beasts in the jungle. But I survived. I survived...and come what may, I will survive again.
Without you, I never would have found the strength. I thank you, and promise to make the most of this lesson.
I have apprised Estinien of the situation at Palaka's Stand, so we needn't have that conversation.
How do you suppose the others have fared in the capital? I hope things have not been too eventful in our absence.
Alphinaud told me everything. Full glad am I to hear the people are safe.
Likewise, you will be pleased to know I found no evidence of lingering beasts in the jungle and ruins. 'Twould seem you finished off the last of them.
Trying times yet lie ahead for the people of Thavnair. Fortunately, they have a wise and benevolent satrap to shepherd them through.
Speaking of which, I received word from Thancred not a short while ago. He awaits our return to the city on Alzadaal's Path. Come.
There is a lingering sense of desolation here, but that is much preferable to the panic and chaos we saw before.
The poor old woman who became a beast said her grandson had gone to Palaka's Stand. I hope he survived...
'Twill be a struggle for the people to come to terms with these tragedies. But they are far stronger than you may think.
It is good to see you safe. Given the skies, 'tis all too easy to fear the worst.
I am pleased to report that we've succeeded in quelling the threat here in the city. The beasts have all been felled, and the citizens are safe for now.
I've also heard from the Radiant that an important proclamation will be made in the city square, though they said no more than that. Might you have any idea what this is about?
...So Vrtra is finally coming out from behind the curtain. I suppose we, too, should hear what he has to say.
To Meghaduta, then. But before that...it would appear that word of the assembly has not yet reached all the citizens.
If anyone along the way seems unaware, we'd best enlighten them.
I'm sure everyone will hear about it soon enough, but those who don't attend will be kicking themselves later for missing what's certain to be a historic moment.
