Trespassers!
Stop them!
Hah hah hah! All shall cower before the might of Archfiend Cagnazzo!
This one seems formidable.
To be appointed as an archfiend, I should certainly think so.
No doubt it is here to guard the gate.
What is it they seek?
I've been waiting so long. Don't disappoint!
Brace yourselves!
Brace yourselves!
I bring my all to bear!
Drink deep of blackest terror!
You really must try harder!
Battle does so whet the appetite. Gheh heh heh heh!
Battle does so whet the appetite. Gheh heh heh heh!
No more games!
Be swallowed by the tide!
Is everyone all right?
Still in one piece.
What!? That's not right!
Hold fast, everyone!
How do you like this?
How do you like this?
Good, good. A fitting finale!
Grrr, why are you still alive!?
So goes yet another archfiend.
Why do you suppose they chose here for their lair?
Well, that was a challenge.
I feel your presence, Sister. Where are you?
That they could open so large a gate is troubling.
I've never seen a voidsent with such command over water.
Tell me one thing, Cagnazzo.
A dragon of our world crossed over into yours long ago, but I have felt her presence here again. What is the meaning of this?
I daresay what you felt...was this.
By the Sisters...
You... What have you done to Azdaja!?
If you want answers, you'll have to get them from Lord Golbez.
Assuming you've the strength to face him.
A pity I will not see the plan to fruition, but my part is done. And to fade with the thrill of battle in my heart makes it all the more worthwhile...
No, wait! Where is she!? Where is my sister!?
At long last, I go to join the great flow...
By the gate's closing, there can be no doubt that he was the one who opened it.
Oh, Azdaja... I prayed we might meet once more...
She is likely still in the void. Take heart─we will find her yet.
So, what now?
While you discuss how to proceed with your search, I would excuse myself to look around. There may be salvage that we could use at the camp.
In that case, I'll patrol the area for more voidsent.
Very well, let us take a moment to consider our options.
Oh, Azdaja...
Why does he look so defeated? We are closer to finding his sister, are we not?
That they should go so far as to use Azdaja's eye as bait... What could they be after?
So, we have discovered the source of the voidsent outbreak in Garlemald.
A gate forced open from the void...
The barrier between our worlds is especially thin here, I suspect.
Elsewise I see little reason why the reapers chose to live in such an inhospitable place.
Even if the conditions are ideal, we're talking about a gate that could pass an archfiend. Opening one so large could not have been easy.
In the age of Allag, Emperor Xande created an enormous portal using a prodigious amount of aether harnessed by the Crystal Tower.
In theory, a similar feat should be possible from within the void. One need but have the requisite amount of aether...such as that harbored by a great wyrm's eye.
And its aether is indeed greatly diminished...
In Forename's vision, Golbez let his archfiends feed upon Azdaja's aether. If he has also taken an eye to open this gate...
It does not bode well, I know. Nevertheless, we must remain hopeful and continue our search.
What I find curious is why our foes chose to strike now, some five thousand years after Azdaja vanished into the void.
And while their overarching plan remains a mystery, what exactly was Cagnazzo's part in it that he had finished?
If Cagnazzo's intent was for his parting words to give us pause, then he has succeeded.
To embrace death, to find satisfaction in oblivion... Perhaps it is indeed true that many voidsent yearn to return to the Lifestream.
The eye explains how they managed to cross over, but we still don't know why they chose this time and this place for an incursion.
Oh, Azdaja... What has become of you, that even your eye should be so spent of aether...
I cannot bear the thought of her being held captive a moment longer, but how will I find her? What must I do?
Calm yourself, Vrtra.
I appreciate that you are upset, but such passion clouds your judgment. You must endeavor to remain composed.
When your mind is clear, we may consider how to proceed with our search.
<sigh> You are right...
In the meantime, I will help Alphinaud and Alisaie back at the village.
That sounds like a fine idea. We should go as well.
Pray give me a moment longer.
Oh, you've come too.
Leave Vrtra be. He needs time alone with his thoughts.
Let us take comfort in the knowledge that the voidgate is closed, and that the people of Garlemald need fear the voidsent hordes no longer.
We're to help Alphinaud and Alisaie, are we? There's little else of interest here, so I wouldn't be opposed to the diversion.
I don't see Vrtra with you. Is everything all right?
He needs a moment to himself. While he is indisposed, we thought we'd lend you a hand.
I've just finished patrolling the area, so we're fine on that front.
There are no signs of voidsent, and I doubt we'll see any more now that the gate has been closed.
As for Alphinaud, he's set his sights on the ceruleum spring. We're hoping to take as much of the stuff as the snowcraft can bear.
That much fuel would keep the people warm for a good while.
We've managed to procure a few suitable containers for transporting the ceruleum, and were about to return to the spring.
If you've a mind to scrounge up more containers, I can take what you have now and get them filled.
Thank you, Estinien. The more we can load into the snowcraft, the better.
Would you and Y'shtola mind helping us with our search, then?
You'll need to take any suitable containers to the spring, and then back to the snowcraft once you've filled them with ceruleum.
It is a welcome change to have Zero helping of her own volition. Perhaps she is finally beginning to trust us.
Any luck finding a container?
Hmmm, will this be solid enough?
Hmmm, will this be solid enough?
Hmmm, will this be solid enough?
We just need to carry this liquid fire to the snowcraft? Sounds simple enough.
We just need to carry this liquid fire to the snowcraft? Sounds simple enough.
If that one has been filled, you should hurry and take it to the snowcraft.
Estinien has already seen to the rest.
Go on ahead. The others asked that I remain here in the event they find more.
Go on ahead. The others asked that I remain here in the event they find more.
Go on ahead. The others asked that I remain here in the event they find more.
Is Vrtra not back yet?
My apologies for the delay.
Are you all right?
I am. As distressing as this turn of events was, the eye itself gives me cause to hope.
While it is no longer possessed of Azdaja's will, it may yet lead us to her.
Were it not for your encouragement, I would never have dared to embark on my search, much less come this far.
I will not lose faith. I will find my sister, wheresoever she may be.
We'll return the eye to her together.
Though tainted, the eye has not fully succumbed to Darkness. Azdaja herself may have been able to resist its influence.
Well, as much as we'd love to take part in your next foray, we can't abandon our efforts here.
Indeed. We'll need to keep a close watch in case the voidgate opens again as well.
Though should it prove safe to do so, I have some ideas for how we might put this village to use.
Do what you must. We will manage.
To free Azdaja, I expect we will have to deal with Golbez once and for all─after which you may undertake your work without worry.
We look forward to the glad tidings.
You'll take good care of everyone, won't you?
What? Why do you ask me this?
Because comrades look out for one another, and I can't think of anyone more qualified to keep them safe.
True. I will do no less than I've promised.
If our respective plans are settled, then let us head back.
I'm not your keeper, nor do I know what you expect of me. But I will keep my word.
I must apologize for my bout of melancholy. To be so easily shaken ill becomes a great wyrm.
You have remained at my side and ever offered me support and encouragement. I haven't the words to thank you.
That Azdaja's eye hasn't succumbed to Darkness bespeaks her incredible resilience.
So let us trust in this sign that she yet lives, and be not deterred in our efforts.
Vrtra has quelled the tempest within his heart. He should be fine.
It was good seeing you again. I hope you'll remember to call on us sooner the next time you need help.
I suppose this is where we part ways for now.
Though we have every faith in you, we will pray for your safety all the same.
I'm glad we had the chance to talk, Zero. Take care, and till next time!
Till next time.
Am I right in assuming that we are to return to the void?
Now that matters here have been settled, yes. But first, we should return to Radz-at-Han to prepare. When everyone is ready, let us convene at Meghaduta.
If everyone is ready, then let us depart for Alzadaal's Legacy.
What was that!?
A deluge of aether. The mark of a terrible magick.
It wasn't far from here. Let's go!
