My vengeful son hath waged war against Ishgard for a thousand years. No mortal mind could comprehend the depths of his rancor.
The Eye itself is secreted deep within the Vault. It is kept under heavy guard─surrounded at all times by men and women who have proven their loyalty to the Holy See.
But though stout walls and sharp blades may suffice to discourage the heretics, the dragons are another matter. There are individuals within the Dravanian Horde whom an entire company of knights would labor to repel─to say nothing of Nidhogg himself.
Nor does age rob them of their strength. Through the endless march of years, the dragons endure. Patient. Calculating. Inexorable. You must understand: these creatures do not share our perception of time.
And that is especially true of the great wyrms─they who spend centuries in slumber only to wake and resume their campaign as if mere hours had passed.
It has been twenty years since Nidhogg last darkened our skies. Twenty years for him to gather his strength, and for us to bolster our defenses... And now, just as he seems primed to return, the heretics strike at the gates...
...You believe that Lady Iceheart is in league with the creature, then?
Of that, we cannot be certain. Though we know the heretics covet the Eye, we have been unable to determine their plans for it.
Such questions aside, we must needs address the ragged hole their mistress has seen fit to rend in Ishgard's protections. 'Tis a weakness the Dravanians are not like to leave untested.
So it would seem... You have described your plight in admirable detail, Lord Commander. Yet I cannot help but wonder at your candor. Why share such sensitive information with us?
I shall speak plain. Ishgard has need of allies, and I would have you bolster our front lines in readiness for the coming battle against the dragons.
This much I expected. Unlike our arrangement concerning the Keeper of the Lake, however, only you stand to benefit from our assistance in this matter. I fail to see why we should intervene in a conflict which concerns only Ishgard and Dravania.
When the Eorzean Alliance requested Ishgard's assistance during Operation Archon, you refused us.
Does it not seem grossly unjust to demand that we now risk our lives in your private war?
I make no attempt to defend my country's conduct. I only ask that you consider what would follow were Ishgard to fall.
Having razed our city to the ground, the Horde would have little cause to linger, and most would return to their lairs in Dravania. Soon thereafter, the ruins of Coerthas would be buried in snow, and the land would become the sole province of beasts and beastmen.
...Until the Garleans' arrival, that is─for you may be certain that the Empire would not hesitate to claim Coerthas. They would not even have to draw steel.
An imperial province sharing a border with Mor Dhona...? Seven hells...
...Ahem. Very well─we will assist you in repelling the dragons. The roar of a great wyrm may have shaken the firmament, but we of Eorzea will not abandon our Ishgardian brothers to face the coming Horde alone.
Nor did I ever think you would. Now, upon the matter of the roar─
Allow me, Ser Aymeric.
Through the power of the Eye, I have become the vessel of Nidhogg's strength. His essence has stolen into my very blood.
Fear not─I am in full control of my faculties, I assure you. And the Eye itself is of no relevance to this tale─it is not essential that I bear it with me wheresoever I go.
Its lingering influence does, however, allow me to hear Nidhogg's voice...
Then the wyrm who roared...?
...Was Nidhogg, aye. He means to hurl his Horde against Daniffen's Collar, and shatter the remaining wards that protect the city.
There can be no doubt─the wyrm has summoned his minions to war.
Though the circumstances are far from ideal, this desperate endeavor will at least provide us an opportunity to bring the sister states of Eorzea together in common cause.
...Ser Aymeric was more ruthless in his negotiations than I had anticipated. I suppose one must give no quarter when one's home is at stake.
But did you see the look on his face when he formally requested our assistance? Though the lord commander has long campaigned for Ishgard to open its gates to outsiders, I suspect this softening of the Holy See's attitude towards foreign cooperation comes as something of a bittersweet victory.
The days ahead promise to be interesting indeed...
If we are to aid the Ishgardians in this war of theirs, preparations will have to be made, and soon.
Before proceeding, however, we must needs return to the Rising Stones and make our report to the Antecedent.
Alphinaud, it is good to see you. Tell me, what have you learned?
Pray summon the others. Everyone must hear my report.
So this was all but a taste of what's to come...
Indeed. The main host advances upon Ishgard as we speak.
Whose vaunted defenses have been nullified.
Shorn of its wards, the city will bear the full force of Nidhogg's fury.
All those people...
Alphinaud is right. The Dravanians cannot be allowed to prevail. If Ishgard falls, all of Eorzea will suffer the consequences.
Then you agree that we have no choice but to intervene. For the good of the realm, the Scions of the Seventh Dawn and the Crystal Braves must join the defense of Ishgard.
Let there be no ambiguity about what has been proposed. We would be directly intervening in the war.
But if all here believe the cause to be just, then to war we shall go.
The path we now embark upon is perilous, but I pray you will walk with us to the end.
For those we have lost. For those we can yet save.
Then it is settled. I shall inform the council of our intentions, and request that they contribute their own forces to the defense of Ishgard.
I have bid the Archons travel to their assigned nations.
Should the members of the Alliance agree to pledge Grand Company soldiers to Ishgard's cause, our comrades will be on hand to act as intermediaries for the duration of the conflict.
...The small matter of persuading the Alliance leaders to grant such support I leave to Alphinaud.
For you, my friend, a different task awaits: I would have you reach out to your fellow adventurers, and gather what allies you may for the coming siege.
I would also have you consider the matter of our own security. Revenant's Toll is but a short flight from the snowfields of Coerthas─it is not unimaginable that the fighting may spill across the border.
Pray brief Slafborn on the brewing conflict, and discuss potential contingencies. The frontier settlers must be prepared for aught that might wing its way over our walls.
I only hope that such precautions prove unnecessary...Ah, before you leave─might I suggest that you have Tataru accompany you? She has a talent for administration, and a firm grasp of the practical challenges we may encounter.
Hmm... We are rather close to Coerthas, aren't we? We'd best see to our own defenses and take stock of our supplies.
Oh, and we'll also need to have beds and bandages laid out just in case.
A good receptionist is ready for any eventuality! Let's go, Forename─I've a hundred and one things to discuss with Slafborn!
I appreciate the warning. If war is coming to Coerthas, then the Toll must be made ready.
I'll increase the number of patrols and lookouts immediately. I'll also see about finding room for an infirmary, as well as temporary housing for victims of the conflict. Ishgard has done well by us in the past and I would return the favor.
But as for rounding up volunteers for the fighting itself, I'm afraid I must disappoint you. I will not send my fellow guild members to die on Ishgardian soil, and I am certain headquarters will say the same.
There will be no official Adventurers' Guild presence at this siege. That said...each adventurer is of course free to do as he or she will.
...I shall have a word with some of my more capable colleagues on your behalf, and you might try your luck here in Revenant's Toll. I daresay there are a few stout souls about town who will answer your call to arms.
Let's get started, shall we? We have a town to rouse!
