I cannot die... I WANT to die... Kill me... END ME...
Light! I see light!
I smell you...!
Open! Open! OPEN!
We're out of time! I must reseal the voidgate!
They're coming through!
In the name of Alzadaal III... I bar this door unto the void!
Well, that was a sharp lesson in the dangers of voidgates...
And what of our experiment? I'd say the results speak for themselves.
The unprotected nixie has suffered extensive aetheric corruption. As Nidhana observed, it's well on its way to becoming a voidsent.
The one merged with the talisman, however, appears unaffected. I sense no changes to its equilibrium.
Rest now, little ones.
G'raha's theory was correct, then.
So it would seem. But while our second familiar was untouched by void energies, the talisman itself shows signs of degradation.
It was, of course, originally designed to shield the soul from primal tempering─it stands to reason that aetheric corruption of a different sort would affect it differently.
We may need to modify the warding scale's design to account for the Thirteenth's uniquely unstable aether...
You've said much of the void's instability, but my imagination fails me. What manner of place is this broken world?
Ah, my apologies. I forget that not all of us spend our days sequestered in dusty archives.
The Thirteenth is a reflection of the Source that was drowned in a flood of Darkness.
In Emet-Selch's own words, this tragedy was a result of the Ascians' attempts to force a Rejoining. They erred in their haste, and made of that world a “useless void.”
And what of your own experience? Will you tell us of what you observed during NOAH's expedition?
I can picture it now... The sunless, stygian expanse, infested with legions of aether-starved monstrosities. A void in every sense of the word.
What you have described in such lurid detail is exactly why I hesitate to encourage you.
Worry not, great Vrtra─our journey into the Thirteenth is but the first leg of a longer voyage.
A voyage that shall lead us to other reflections─to new mysteries and discoveries─and I mean to be there every step of the way.
But first I must focus on refining the warding talisman...
Then I can begin work on constructing an artificial Atomos.
Or, I could if I had the relevant manuals to hand. Might I be so bold as to request access to the satrap's family archives?
Ahem...Your Excellency?
Hm...? Oh! Yes, that can be arranged. I will speak to my officials upon our return.
We will see you back in the city, then!
Seeing the void's terrors firsthand was an experience. But I doubt fear of such creatures is at the root of Vrtra's hesitation...
Once Nidhana succeeds in replicating the mock Atomos, this door into the Thirteenth will be ours to open.
Will you be crossing the threshold alongside us? I realize this is more my endeavor than yours...
Hm. To be honest, I've no interest in visiting the void myself.
...Might we discuss this later? There is something I must do first.
Why does everyone insist on being so secretive? I at least had good reason for not wanting to explain my nixie ritual...
Ahem. Shall we proceed with our other preparations, then?
As we saw, the warding scale can be effective at protecting the bearer from other sources of aetheric corruption. Nevertheless, the talisman's durability will need to be improved if it is to withstand the void's influence for a prolonged length of time.
And I think that is a problem we can address without involving the brilliant but busy alchemists who created it. Who do we know who excels at this kind of structural augmentation?
An excellent suggestion.
Perhaps they once did, but availing ourselves of Allagan insights tends to be an involved process in and of itself.
Nay, I believe a more straightforward approach is in order: consulting with the engineers of Garlond Ironworks.
What of Garlond Ironworks, then? They may have an engineer free to assist us.
As I recall, Cid himself is no stranger to the void and its volatile energies.
With his experienced hand at the helm, I have every confidence that the Ironworks can strengthen the warding scale.
Come, let us visit their operation in Rhalgr's Reach and commission their best and brightest.
Perhaps this young man can locate Cid for us.
