It's true! Felled it with a single swing of his axe, he did! Never seen anything like it!
So I says to him, “Who are you, the Warrior of bleedin' Darkness!?”
And he says, “No, I'm a Warrior of Light.” And that was it. Buggered off as quick as he came.
A Warrior of Light?
Why would someone go around calling himself that, though? It was those bastards who caused the Flood.
I mean, if you were going to pretend to be anyone, it'd be her─the Warrior of Darkness!
Eh? Oh! I─ I didn't know! It's an honor!
Since the eater is no longer a threat, our work here is done. Return to your posts.
I had hoped to fight at your side today... But I'll continue to follow your example─and may we meet again!
I apologize for the wasted journey. It seems I overestimated the threat.
As for this “Warrior of Light”... I do not know who would be brazen enough to take that mantle for his own. Whatever it may once have meant, it is forever tainted by the association with the Flood.
The Exarch told me the truth of Ardbert and his comrades' deeds, and I am aware they played some part in your own triumph. But to most, they are synonymous with the calamity that befell this world.
Still, if this man is minded to destroy sin eaters, I may forgive him his unfortunate choice of alias.
But that is neither here nor there. I thank you for accompanying me.
With that concluded, shall we return to the Crystarium? There is a proposal I should like to make...
Forgive me. There is one more thing.
A personal concern of mine. I had hoped you might have a moment to speak privately.
Take your time. I shall go on ahead.
I will not mince words. This matter concerns the Exarch.
Though his countenance belies his age, his demeanor never has. He has seen more than any man should, and grown ever more weary with time...
But I see I give the wrong impression. While it is true he attempted to open a letter with his salmon fillet the other evening, we are not here because I suspect his mind is deteriorating.
Nor do I believe him to be so maddeningly unconcerned by the prospect of his own death as he once was. Indeed, the opposite is true.
It is for this reason that I seek your advice.
Since he returned from the Tempest, the Exarch is...not as he was.
He seems a different man. A younger man.
I know not the details of his research, but when I saw him at work recently, there was a glint in his eye that I had never seen before. He looked happy.
It was as if he had peered into the future, and for the first time, found joy there.
Though it gladdens me to see him thus, I wonder if I should not keep my distance. I fear that my presence will only anchor him to the past. Remind him of all the pain that came before.
...Is that so?
He─ Are you sure?
Then perhaps we might remain as we were. As we have always been.
What a relief.
In that case, I will have to speak with him about the amount of time he is spending at work.
This research is important, I know, but if he refuses to consider his own health, I will have to consider it for him.
I will not keep you. You and your comrades have much to discuss.
I will see the others back to their posts.
Do you have business with the Crystal Exarch? Just say the word, and I would be happy to escort you to the Ocular.
The others were quite shocked to hear of what we found in Lakeland.
But now that you're here, there is a proposal I should like to make.
I have been spending a great deal of time in the Cabinet of Curiosity, and of late I have noted more and more people perusing books on history─the years leading up to the Flood, in particular.
I suspect they wish to know more about the Warriors of Light─as well they should─but nearly everything I've come across describes them as sin eaters or worse.
Regardless of whether or not this “Warrior of Light” is who they claim to be, I worry that their sudden appearance, in conjunction with this renewed interest in their predecessors, may lead to growing unrest and fear.
If the people of the Crystarium seek the truth, I say we give it to them.
I too can attest to the falsehoods found within full many of the Cabinet's tomes, with nary a mention of the noble deeds of Ardbert and his comrades.
To be fair, they bear some responsibility for the Flood. But when the tale is told again and again over the course of a century, I am not surprised to see their roles distorted and them painted as villains.
Were it not for the records stored within the Crystal Tower, I would have had no reason to question the narrative.
Unfortunately, that knowledge was of no use, for when I arrived here in the First, their reputation had already been irreparably tarnished.
That said, there still remained those who worked tirelessly to defend their good name in those early days following the Flood.
Considering all the good they had done, I find it a wonder they needed defending at all.
They brought to justice the man who misused my knowledge to bring about the fall of Voeburt. That such heroes could be spoken of in the same breath as sin eaters is absurd.
Under normal circumstances I would agree, but as time passed, those who knew firsthand of their deeds dwindled. In the end, only one truth remained─that they were the cause of the Flood.
With the world on the brink of oblivion, it was all too easy for the Warriors of Light to become villains deserving only of resentment and hate.
At that point, the truth mattered little. It would not change their lot.
Thanks to all of you, however, their lot has changed, and now they may heed the long-forgotten truth.
You claimed it was Ardbert who helped you overcome Emet-Selch, correct? Such a revelation would do well to sway the hearts of those who know him only as a villain.
I have shared this with a select few, but one and all must be told of his sacrifice.
To that end I say we proceed with Alphinaud's plan. We call together the people of the Crystarium and recount to them the true tale of the Warriors of Light and the Flood that followed in their wake.
Well? What say you, Forename?
Then we're all of one mind on the matter. Good.
In hindsight, I agree. But better late than never, no?
Exarch, might I ask you to continue working with Beq Lugg on our means of returning home? The rest of us will see to gathering the people of the Crystarium in the Exedra.
We have to reach out to anyone and everyone who might be willing to lend an ear. With any luck, word will spread and more will accompany them.
Well, well, what a coincidence! I was just reading over a letter I received from Grenoldt not long ago.
He says a visitor from the Crystarium found him at the bottom of the ocean, and that she inspired him to reach new artistic heights. Well, I can only think of one person capable of both feats─though I'd say the latter is far more impressive.
To think fate could bring the two of you together in such a place...
I'm sorry? You mean the Exarch didn't tell us the whole story of the Warriors of Light? Well whatever he's left unsaid, I'm all ears.
No, this can't be... Surely there is at least one book here that does not cast the Warriors of Light and their deeds in such a negative light...
Oh, Forename! Forgive me. The Cabinet of Curiosity has been bustling with visitors of late, but I fear our repository lacks for the knowledge they seek.
The people wish to know the truth of the Flood. Of the Warriors of Light.
I have searched high and low, but alas... Every account portrays them as no better than sin eaters─abominations worthy only of scorn and resentment.
I know they were not always judged so harshly, yet I can find no proof. And I dare call myself a librarian...
You would address the people and tell them the truth of the Warriors of Light? Of the Flood?
How wonderful! You have regaled me with the tale once before, but I should love to hear it again. Oh, and you may be assured I will not come alone.
Come to browse wares in the market, have you? Well I can guarantee you'll have no trouble finding what you need, whatever it may be. Under Eulmore's new leadership, trade has never been more prosperous.
Word is that fellow from Daedalus Stoneworks has taken over as mayor. Did he really? Little wonder business is booming the way it is.
I imagine it won't be long before all of Norvrandt reaps the benefits... But you've not come to talk about the market. Something on your mind?
I see. The Exarch did mention they had something to do with your returning the night to Norvrandt. All right, consider my interest piqued.
Well, well. To what do I owe the pleasure? Whatever it is, I must ask you be brief─with the night returned, visitors have been flocking to the Crystarium, and I find myself too busy by half.
I don't mind it, though. Seeing the Stairs so full of life and excitement, one can almost forget the Flood ever happened.
The Warriors of Light? Yes, the Exarch has mentioned them before, but everyone knows them now as the Cardinal Virtues. Or are you suggesting there's more to it than that?
Well, you've yet to steer us wrong, so I'm willing to hear what you have to say.
Forename! My, what a wonderful surprise. Though I hope your being here doesn't mean someone's been hurt.
Thanks to you I've had far fewer patients coming through my door of late. Which is a shame, come to think of it─I've had fewer opportunities to test my new medicines.
Hee hee, I jest, of course! It's actually been quite pleasant to have a few moments to myself now and again.
The truth about the Warriors of Light? But the Exarch has already spoken with me about them. Well, if there's more to the tale, I'd very much like to hear it.
There you are. Between the four of us, I daresay we've swept the Crystarium from top to bottom. Now we need but wait for the people to gather.
Yes, this looks to be nearly everyone. Let us begin, shall we?
Though I am usually the first to hold forth at such events, I think, on this occasion, that honor should fall to you.
They would be more inclined to take the word of the Warrior of Darkness.
Indeed. In light of the subject matter, who better than thee to speak these truths?
Wicked white... The Warriors of Light did all that?
So they never─ I mean, they only ever wanted to help? And when everything they'd done turned to ash, they still carried on...
They gave everything to stop the Flood... First their lives, then their souls...
And they managed it, too─in the end. They saved us. And we cursed their names.
This should go a long way towards clearing the air.
Impossible...!
I definitely see something. You don't think it's a ghost, do you?
Nay. Yonder standeth no bloodless apparition, but a Warrior of Light and Darkness both. Ardbert.
What in the world...?
It's you! The one who slew the eater...
That it should be the Warrior of Darkness who brought the truth to light... You've saved me a fair bit of time─though I have a few words of my own to say, if I may.
People of the Crystarium! I am Ardbert, one of those you know as a Warrior of Light.
That's impossible! You should be dead...
Aye, that I should. But as the world has been given new life, so too have I.
I know not why I, and I alone, have been gifted this chance. But I do know this: only by the will of the star itself could such a miracle come to pass.
The hero who stands before you now─the Warrior of Darkness─is not of this world. And the day will come when she must return to her home.
But this land is our home. And if it is to remain so, now and forevermore, it is we who must protect it.
The time to rely on saviors from afar has passed. It is you who must rise. You who must become the new Warriors of Light!
Wha─ Us? Warriors of Light?
None of us were born heroes, my friend. I was only ever a man with a thirst for adventure.
But wherever my journeys took me, I was invariably confronted with the same choice: to lend what aid I could to those in need─or not. And I always chose the former.
Any one of you could do the same. All you need is the will to help your fellow man, and the resolve to see it through.
From thine own lips did we learn of Ardbert's fate, and by thy countenance, I gather thou art not inclined to recant thy testimony.
Yet whosoever this man may be, his words hold truth─and resonate with the citizenry besides. For us to voice our doubts here and now would serve but to sow disquiet. 'Twere better we retired unto the Ocular, and there discussed this matter in private.
Go. I will stay here and watch.
So that is a Warrior of Light of the First.
I have not had the pleasure of making his acquaintance, but as you all seem to be in agreement, I gather this is no simple case of mistaken identity.
As far as I was able to discern, that was indeed Ardbert. It has been a long time, but not that long. Could he truly have been resurrected as he claims?
Ardbert did entrust his very soul unto thee. I see no reason to question thy judgment.
Nor I. To my eyes, your aether burns as brightly as the day you slew Emet-Selch. That is proof that he is with you still.
Yet that which standeth now before the people is far more than a passing imitation. I am reminded of the Cardinal Virtues...though a sin eater he is not.
Which leaveth but one plausible explanation.
That he is an Ascian.
Given their fondness for posthumous possession, I would have to agree.
From what I understand, the Warriors of Light were laid to rest in Eulmore by those whom they had aided in life. At the time, some few still remembered them as heroes.
Needless to say, four of them were subsequently exhumed to serve as the Virtues. And if one knew where to look, Ardbert too would not have been difficult to find.
Assuming then that this is indeed the work of an Ascian, my mind inevitably turns to the last remaining Paragon to survive the sundering...
Elidibus.
That Zenos hath reclaimed his own flesh is known.
Thus evicted from his borrowed form...and cognizant, no doubt, of Emet-Selch's failure here in the First...
'Tis quite possible the emissary chose Ardbert for his next vessel.
Inhabiting the flesh of the fallen... My, that is unsavory. And they do this often, you say?
Verily, for they possess no corporeal forms of their own. In what one may term their natural state, none save those gifted with the Echo can perceive them.
Indeed, when Elidibus intruded upon the Waking Sands, his presence did go unmarked by all save Minfilia and the Warrior of Light.
On that occasion, I myself remained ignorant of his coming until after his departure.
'Twas only at a later juncture, when he deigned to appear before me in borrowed flesh that I was finally able to take the measure of him.
In such puppetry do the Ascians engage when they seek to influence the course of history.
And they have gained much by it. Emet-Selch single-handedly built the Garlean Empire in this manner, while Lahabrea came close to conquering Eorzea having taken possession of Thancred's living body.
Yet it must needs be noted that the Ascians cannot avail themselves of all mortal vessels. For were they able to do so, none would serve as a better pawn than our own redoubtable champion.
Mayhap the blessing of Light shieldeth Hydaelyn's chosen from Ascian influence. Or mayhap other forces are at work. We cannot say for certain.
Whatever the reason, I hope it holds true. I dare not contemplate what might come to pass otherwise.
Is it not peculiar, then, that Ardbert's mortal remains should be susceptible, given that he was once a Warrior of Light? Or did the final departure of his soul make it possible, perhaps?
Regardless, to hear an Ascian use him to call forth new Warriors of Light boggles the mind.
Elidibus hath ever been an enigma, his ostensible purpose being to preserve the balance between Light and Dark.
When he made overtures towards me, however, I was afforded a glimpse behind the mask of the self-appointed emissary.
I shall not defend mine actions, undertaken in pursuit of a better understanding of our foe, as either wise or prudent.
Nevertheless, what little I did glean may now prove useful.
Elidibus possesseth a subtle mind, practiced in the art of manipulation. That he coaxed this star's most valiant heroes as far as the Source with naught save half-truths is no trifling feat.
And now, I believe, he doth employ his skills once more to some as-yet-unknown end. Though naught is certain, should my suspicions prove true, we shall have need of all our wits if we are to uncover─and thereafter thwart─his plot.
Agreed. 'Tis plain that simply speaking out against him will not avail us. At best, it would only serve to confuse the people.
And I would hesitate to do anything which might tarnish Ardbert's reputation once more, nor yours by association.
That being the case, it may be wise to keep a covert eye on this “Ardbert's” movements as we attempt to discern his purpose and how best to mitigate his influence.
His performance appears to have concluded. What now─go back out and follow him?
'Twould appear Master Alphinaud already hath pursuit in mind, and I suspect one pair of eyes shall better serve our cause than half a dozen. Let the rest of us maintain an inconspicuous distance─for the present, at least.
You did well to dispel the falsehoods surrounding the Warriors of Light and their actions prior to the Flood. Though I must say the reappearance of Ardbert─or rather, one who appropriated his identity─was a rather curious development.
He is an impostor, of that there is no doubt. But to the masses he will appear as a hero returned from the grave.
After the Warriors of Light were laid to rest in Eulmore, the people prayed fervently for the gods to deliver them from their plight. Prayed that these fallen heroes be born again for their sacrifices. What bitter irony.
I for one would like to know why Ardbert urged the people to become Warriors of Light themselves.
Ere we take action, we must needs ascertain his intent.
Let us pray that Master Alphinaud returneth soon with that most essential knowledge.
For now, I think it best to apprise Thancred and Ryne of our efforts. When we do confront Ardbert, we shall no doubt have need of their strength.
Agreed. I think it prudent we all take measures to prepare for what's to come.
Beq Lugg and I will continue our research into how we might improve the spirit vessel, that it might one day carry you home.
Hmmm... Then I think it time I return to the Greatwood.
Until now, everything we have learned of the Ascians has been handed to us at their leisure.
But that was one of Emet-Selch's unique failings. I have no reason to think Elidibus will be as forthcoming.
Fortunately, I recently received word from Fanow that heretofore unexplored chambers have been discovered deep within the Qitana Ravel.
Almet believes the relics within tell of a great calamity that befell an ancient civilization─that of the Ascians, perhaps. They may lead us to the truths we seek.
I wouldn't dream of going without you.
I fail to see why that would be necessary given that you will be accompanying me. Don't be coy─it doesn't suit you.
When you are ready, make for Fanow. Almet and her sisters will be expecting us.
Then let us be about our tasks. Pray give my regards to the Viis.
Welcome, allies of Ronka. We have accomplished much since last you came. With the Lightwarden dead and its minions dispersed, we have at last reclaimed our hunting grounds near Rak'tika Falls.
It was there that we discovered more ruins. Although we ran afoul of no traps while exploring its halls, we determined that the innermost chambers were warded by magick.
We all were in agreement─before any investigation could proceed, you should be summoned.
We are grateful that you did. From what you have told me, I strongly suspect that the wisdom my comrades and I seek can be found within.
This wisdom could prove invaluable, for we may soon face a foe whose greatest asset is our ignorance.
...I see. Then it is good that you have come. For Ronka was once home to the greatest of weapons─knowledge and understanding.
And it is our duty to ensure you and yours do not want for either.
That said, we must proceed with caution. To have reached the inner chambers unmolested suggests a more formidable deterrent yet lies within.
Come now. Surely any threats sleeping within the ruins pale in comparison to those we have faced thus far.
This is not a game, Sister! You should not be so eager to run headlong into danger!
Oh? And who was it pining for the return of our allies that we might venture into the ruins? Clutching her staff at night, wishing it were─
<gasp> You promised not to tell!
Then I suggest we be going.
Get back here!
Remind me: exactly how old are you and your sisters? ...On second thought, perhaps it's for the better I do not know.
Pray forgive their...overzealous nature. None save we three have been privileged to escort you and yours into the ruins and bear witness to its secrets.
Their hearts now burn with a curiosity that is not easily satiated.
Please, you needn't apologize. As a seeker of knowledge myself, I understand full well their enthusiasm. And if not for your sedulous efforts to protect the ruins, we would not be afforded this opportunity.
Speaking of which, I believe I have kept you away from the ruins long enough. Come, let us make for the Qitana Ravel.
It is most strange for these halls to be left unguarded. Have care when breaking the seal on the chamber door. Danger surely awaits us on the other side.
Come. Our new discoveries are to be found this way.
The people of Ronka are known to have venerated animals, but these features do not match those of any indigenous species. This is no common beast.
Though that much is plain from its proportions.
Lifelike, is it not? One could almost imagine it breathed.
Rgghh!
Ahh!
<laugh>
Why, you—ugh!
This owl, by contrast, seems no different from the others we've seen.
The sealed door lies ahead.
As you see, one statue is missing. I expect we are meant to replace it, as before.
Too simple. There will be some additional defense mechanism.
Just a moment─there are words carved into the stone.
He...who would disturb...a hero's deserved slumber...
Shall instead...waken the beast...and know...his folly...
Wait! Don't!
Wh-What? But I only─ What is happening!?
Oh no... Oh no, no, no... I-It lives!
Why am I not surprised? Prepare yourselves!
