[Do not expect to walk here unchallenged. Tell me, stunted ones, did those short legs bring you all the way from Tuliyollal?]
He's speaking the old Yok Huy tongue. The words are...difficult to catch.
Though your words are crude and cumbersome, I use them for your benefit.
You are a claimant in this “rite of succession”?
That's right.
Then if you die, Tuliyollal loses a potential ruler.
That's a dark thing to say, friend. I get the feeling you don't share the opinions of the other Yok Huy we've met.
We do not grovel before Gulool Ja Ja like those shameless lapdogs.
My brethren and I are conquerors, and we will restore our people to their rightful place as Tural's overlords!
The giants have their own factions, too, it seems...
You think your kin weak for showing deference to my father, but they do not follow the man.
It is his peace they respect. A peace they always wanted─which they realized could be had right here.
Justifications of the craven! They turn their gaze from our ancestors─from the dream we kept alive for a thousand years and more!
They are unworthy of bearing our legacy. I will reclaim the glory of our people.
And our ascension begins with the death of the Third Promise!
Stop! I don't want to fight you!
Then die on your knees.
Opportunistic vermin! Seek to feast on us, do you!?
Get down here! Your neck will be the first I snap this day!
That's right!
Why do you help us?
I didn't put much thought into it. My legs were moving before I knew what was happening.
I suppose I feared you'd die before we had the chance to get to know each other. Before I could learn more about you.
To what end?
Oh, that's simple...
If we're to share the land, it's the best way for us to become friends.
How is he?
He'll live. Not quite ready to walk under his own strength, however.
If you could stay and tend to him, the rest of us will continue on to Worqor Zormor.
Understood. Be careful up there.
This changes nothing. We will not forsake our conquest.
As you like. You want to kill me, you're welcome to try. But right now, you might want to worry about your comrade.
On a mountain of that size, there are bound to be creatures even I've never heard of. I'll trust you to lead the way.
Then we climb! Gurfurlur is waiting!
I set out to kill Tuliyollal's favorite daughter this day. To be aided by her instead was...unexpected.
I will not harm you or yours until this debt is repaid.
I will tend to this one's wounds. Go on ahead with the others.
As I've said before, I am no fighter. I'll follow from a distance and keep well out of your way.
While I didn't mind guarding Erenville on the river, I look forward to swinging a blade on the front lines this time!
That bird must roost somewhere on the mountain. We'll need to be wary of the skies, as well.
We'll be seeing you soon, Gurfurlur!
We've been climbing for ages...
And we're barely halfway.The real climb starts from here!
Look at all these crystals...
Evidence of how dense this ambient aether must be.
What...is that?
Must be a snow spirit!Not that I've ever seen one.
