She...she saved me. From the mountain bird. Now, then...the same eyes. Eyes of stone. Words of stone.
We are still in her debt. This is true.
Consider the debt repaid.
But do not misunderstand. We do not submit to Tuliyollan rule.
Aye, you've made your point. We can talk more once the contest is over!
...I ask your name.
Wuk Lamat! Protector of peace and soon-to-be Dawnservant!
Even people with wildly different ideals can find understanding through earnest discussion. I believe that wholeheartedly.
As do I. I won't give up until we reach a compromise.
Assuming you survive. My old bones and I will be waiting here for the true heir's return.
Your thoughts have always been a mystery to me, Brother, but I'm relieved to see you put aside the contest for the sake of the greater good.
Our nation is a fortress, and its people the bricks with which it is built. The more that are lost or broken, the weaker Tuliyollal becomes.
Even the crudest rock has value as a stepping stone.
Come on, you two! Forget about the rite of succession for now, and help me fight this overgrown snake-bird!
I don't care how strong the Skyruin may be─we're going to put this menace down for good!
You and yours have journeyed to the edge of existence and back─I'm sure defeating this “overgrown snake-bird” is well within your capabilities. Yet I bid you to be cautious, all the same.
That the future Dawnservant should ignore my counsel to indulge a whim is...vexing.
We needn't speak.
What is on your mind, Brother...?
It hath been some while since last I joined thee in battle. Indeed, so full have been our days upon these shores, it doth seem a lifetime hath passed.
I knew Koana wouldn't be one to rush off and leave others to deal with a creature like Valigarmanda.
Even Papa may not have been able to slay Valigarmanda...but with the Dawn's Promise and our allies all fighting together, I believe we can do just that!
I've never faced anything this powerful before, but I swear I won't hold you back!
Valigarmanda will demand our undivided attention. Let's hope Zoraal Ja has nothing sinister planned.
The Skyruin falls today!For Tuliyollal!
Stay alive.No foolish risks.
Stay alive.No foolish risks.
The wind... It's all around us!
Heh... This will be some fight.
Heh... This will be some fight.
This is not a safe spot to stand...
Hmph...A beast is a beast.
You won't catch me the same way twice.
You won't catch me the same way twice.
Ware its breath!
Ugh...I need to pay more attention!
What's this now!?
Its aether is staggering!
Its aether is staggering!
The sky, the ground...It's all changed!
Tricks to frighten children.
Tricks to frighten children.
Be careful of the wind-infused ground!
Damn it all!How could anyone see that coming!?
Damn it all!How could anyone see that coming!?
Now it striketh from our flanks...
I'm ready this time!
Everything's gone back to normal!
It must have tired of controlling the ambient aether.
It's changing things again...
Do your worst!We'll fight through it all!
Do your worst!We'll fight through it all!
This biting cold...It's unbearable!
We need to do something before we freeze to death!
We need to do something before we freeze to death!
That's coming from the mountainside...Watch out behind us!
Is the ground shaking?
Whoa!
We could have been buried alive...
We could have been buried alive...
An icy embrace...We must needs keep in motion!
I'd rather not end up an icicle!
I'd rather not end up an icicle!
I'd rather not end up an icicle!
Hah! You missed me!
You're quick on your feet!
These spikes are rather ominous...
These spikes are rather ominous...
Then we break them.This one first!
To me!Brace for the worst!
Ugh!
Endure, my friends!
It's n-not so bad...
We can take this!
Haaah!You won't break us!
A momentary discomfort...
A momentary discomfort...
Is everyone still with us!?
Of course!
Then let's finish this!
Then let's finish this!
Again with the ambient aether...?Its energies are inexhaustible!
Is that the Skyruin's true strength, then?
Endless strength or not, victory will be ours!
Endless strength or not, victory will be ours!
W-We won...? We won!
You fought well, Lamaty'i... Without hesitation.
Well, that was grueling!
'Twas an ordeal, indeed.
Small wonder they called it the “Skyruin”!
I'd been curious to see Zoraal Ja in action...
I expected...more.
We did it... We slew Valigarmanda!
A feat that even the great Gulool Ja Ja couldn't manage!
Hah! For you, Papa!
There's no denying it was an impressive achievement. But I wouldn't be so quick to claim we've outdone Father.
The vidraal was weakened by decades of imprisonment. Had we faced it in its prime, we wouldn't have fared a fraction as well.
How can you say that!? Eighty years couldn't have made that much of a difference, could it?
Oh, who am I kidding. Papa's still the best...
I did, didn't I? Even if it wasn't at full strength, we defeated a living legend!
I swear, I'll surpass the old man one day!
You're right about that! Just need a few more battles like this one under my belt!
You're right about that... I'll need to improve if I want to surpass the old man.
The Skyruin lies dead, and still I have yet to prove myself the miracle...
Well, I suppose we should head back and join Erenville.
Aye, we did leave him with only Sareel Ja for company...
Heh heh, I'm still giddy from our victory...
The matter of outdoing our father aside, this was the best outcome we could have hoped for. Never again will our people need fear the looming shadow of the Skyruin.
Koana did well. Our Promise has promise too, don't you think?
'Tis fortunate we vanquished that winged calamity ere it could inflict greater suffering upon these lands.
Witnessing Zoraal Ja in battle, I understand why he's widely considered to be Tuliyollal's greatest warrior.
Didn't I tell you? I pull my own weight in battle now!
Your proud expressions bespeak a successful hunt. Not that I'm surprised in the least.
Zoraal Ja came back earlier, but left almost immediately with Sareel Ja in tow. He seemed disinclined to share in any victory celebrations.
That's nothing unusual for Zoraal Ja.
No, it's Bakool Ja Ja that concerns me. He's probably far ahead now, making the most of the mayhem he caused.
I still can't believe he did something so evil just to slow us down... If we hadn't slain Valigarmanda, it wasn't only Urqopacha at risk─there would have been deaths across the entire continent!
I'm more certain than ever that Bakool Ja Ja cannot be allowed to rule. I have to catch him and take back my keystone!
I'll make Bakool Ja Ja answer for this!
Spending time alone with Sareel Ja was akin to torture. Despite my obvious disinterest, he spewed a constant stream of mean-spirited bile. Honestly, I might have preferred facing fire and ruin with you on the battlefield...
The Yok Huy must still be anxious, wondering where and when Valigarmanda will strike next.
I suggest we hurry back and allay their fears. Alphinaud's as well, I should think.
Yes, you're right! We shouldn't let them worry another moment!
I thought the villagers would be in hiding. Alphinaud's confidence in us must have reassured them.
Welcome back. Not for a moment did I doubt that you'd return safe and sound.
I expected I would be asked to track many things during the course of our journey, but Valigarmanda was not among them.
Scaling a massive mountain. Fighting an elector. Battle against a legendary monstrosity... Yes, you could say I'm a little tired.
I see Master Alphinaud hath made good use of the time to further tend the wounded.
Amidst the chaos of the Skyruin's awakening, I'd forgotten we still have the Feat of Ice to complete...
While we were contending with that screeching menace, I expect Bakool Ja Ja was off to the next feat.
Before we do anything else, we should talk to Gurfurlur.
To the temple, then?
That won't be necessary, heroes of the hour.
Valigarmanda is no more. Yours is a victory worthy of song.
Hmm... We had plans for a second feat to be conducted here in town, but the recklessness of your fellow claimant has rendered them pointless.
A second feat?
The Feat of Ice. You were to fortify Valigarmanda's prison.
Hmm... How shall we proceed, High Luminary?
What more would we test, Zurmurwur? They have defeated the Skyruin and saved the gods know how many lives. If they are not worthy heirs to Gulool Ja Ja, then no one is.
Now that our last claimant has arrived, we can proceed with the formalities. For the skill and bravery the three of you have shown, I award you each a second keystone.
That makes five. Only two left to collect.
Except that one of those five is in Bakool Ja Ja's thieving hands. He will answer for that─and for loosing Valigarmanda!
You have brought lasting tranquility to our home, and earned the gratitude of every Yok Huy.
May glory and prosperity continue to bless Tuliyollal as we enter this new age!
Was never much of a talker, our brother.
If you're up for it, you should visit the capital! I'd like everyone to get to know you and your people better!
Hah! I'll consider it...if it's one of you two who claims the throne.
Then you need only await a missive from Sunperch─I'll be sending out invitations.
Today is a day for unusual visitors.
You... Wuk Lamat, was it not?
I doubted you could slay Valigarmanda, but the quiet skies proclaim your triumph.
Had the vidraal been suffered to roam free, it would have terrorized us all... Once again, we find ourselves in your debt.
You owe us nothing─we fought because we wanted to.
Yet a debt has been incurred all the same. It will haunt me if I do not repay it.
Hrmmm... I wouldn't even know what to ask for.
Perhaps he can tell us about the dreams of the golden city?
Oh, good idea! That was on my list of questions I wanted to ask!
The golden dreams... Yes, we have records of our forebears and their visions from the time before the Xak Tural expedition.
What did your forebears see?
A heavenly land, suffused with a golden glow. Its people lived as gods, never aging, never dying, free from hardship and conflict.
Every building was a palace, and in their midst reigned a silent goddess. A statue so tall even my kin would need lift their gaze to behold its visage.
A statue of a goddess? That's new...
Aye. And compared to the abstract imagery we'd previously heard, this was a detailed description.
The dreamers were consumed by their visions─compelled to seek out the paradise they'd been shown. They journeyed to Xak Tural...where they died in droves.
Those who go in search of the golden city do not return... The tales Wuk Evu shared may have been rooted in historical fact.
Perhaps. Who can know the truth of it? Once our ancestors left the forest, there were no more dreams nor dreamers.
The forest? What do you mean?
From the very first, the visions were said to visit only those who worked the quarries in Yak T'el.
But after they were ravaged by disease and saw fewer newborns, they were forced to abandon that territory.
Once our people's withdrawal to Urqopacha was complete, we never again dreamed of the golden city.
So only Yok Huy in that one specific area experienced the visions... Fascinating.
Well, we're headed to Yak T'el next. Maybe we'll find out more when we get there.
Thank you for sharing your stories with us.
I do not require gratitude. I merely repaid a debt.
Farewell, Wuk Lamat. I do not think our paths will cross again.
Long has it been since any from Chirwagur Saltern have deigned to enter Worlar's Echo. A day for unusual visitors, indeed.
Watching Vorporlor get caught up in Wuk Lamat's unstoppable wake reminds me of my younger days...
What a turn of events─we were only meant to strengthen the ice, but Bakool Ja Ja's idiocy forced us to do them one better.
So Yak T'el is where the Yok Huy had their golden dreams. We may soon have the chance to investigate that tale firsthand.
A heavenly land, suffused with a golden glow...
With only two keystones remaining, we've at last begun to gain a fuller picture of the legend of the golden city.
I don't think Vorporlor and his brethren will have a sudden change of heart about Tuliyollal.
But that doesn't mean they'll never change at all. Today is proof of that!
Right! Time to track down the next elector!
I think it's time we returned to Tuliyollal. After scaling Tural's tallest mountain and battling a legendary beast to the death, even dauntless heroes like you could probably use a rest.
In any case, there are preparations to be made before we can visit the next destination laid out in the saga.
The respite would be most welcome. I believe I hear the For'ard Cabins calling our names.
No sooner did we set foot back in Tuliyollal than I felt the weight of recent events set in all at once. I am definitely due for a long nap.
<yawn> I won't say no to clean sheets and a soft pillow.
There are still two feats left to go. We want to face them refreshed and ready for action.
I'll take the opportunity to think on some things.
Welcome back to Tuliyollal. Your cabins are waiting for you.
Rest well, everyone. We can meet back here later on.
I have a small errand to run in the city, so I'll leave you to recover.
Will you be heading to the palace, Wuk Lamat?
...Wuk Lamat, did you hear me?
Lost in her own little world, it seems. Well, no matter─I'll be back soon enough.
An attendant is standing by to unlock your cabin. Enjoy your stay!
The rite of succession must be an absolutely exhausting endeavor. The comforts of our cabins are at your disposal whenever you wish to retire, madam.
The best way I know...
