That will do, spearman. I would receive my darling daughter.
Know that you are the strongest I've fought in many a moon, if not longer. It is the privilege of a life long lived to face such a formidable soul!
If it's formidable you want, then look no further than that woman there.
...I see you, warrior.
We had no idea you meant to visit Tural...
I've seen what lies east. This time I chose west.
And thus did our itinerant dragoon make his travel plans.
You witnessed our bout? If you thought he was fearsome, that was with one head dozing.
I'm not sure I understand...
The old man has been feeling his years.
The uncovered side is the Head of Resolve, and age has only deepened his love for combat...
But the Head of Reason, wiser of the two, sleeps more and more these days. As I understand it, the veil helps with the restoration of his magical energies.
Enough about me, Lamaty'i. I want to hear of your adventures.
“Lamaty'i”?
A term of endearment. It's what my family calls me.
When last did we see you in the palace? Greetings, Elene'sh─
It's “Erenville” now, Dawnservant.
I took the name while abroad, and have since grown accustomed to it...
Hm. Erenville, then.
And these others, I assume, are Lamaty'i's recruited allies.
Hah, all tempered steel. Yet as much as I'd enjoy testing their mettle, the hour of the rite is at hand. I will summon the other claimants at once.
Then I shall leave you to it.
Good fortune, my friends.
The claimants are assembled.
The First Promise, Zoraal Ja.
The Second Promise, Koana.
The Third Promise, Wuk Lamat.
And lastly, the chosen of Mamook, Bakool Ja Ja.
You four will compete in the rite of succession, the outcome of which will decide who takes my place as Dawnservant.
I am not the man I once was. My wiser half sleeps the days away, and it is time I yield my position.
But mine is a torch that has never been passed. Tuliyollal is young, and so I look to the old ways for inspiration.
The rite of succession─the means by which the Autarch of Mamook was chosen.
Only the two-headed were deemed fit for this contest, but the Tuliyollal I built is a nation of many peoples. Our leader needn't have two heads, nor be a Mamool Ja at all.
So I gave the right of claimant not only to the son I sired, but to my adopted children as well.
Yet the opportunity to rule was still not equal. That is why our recent tournament offered a place in the contest as the winning prize.
Now you have us to compete against!
Though it seems the one-head was already too afraid to face us in the tournament!
