Be at ease. We are here to trade words, not blows.
The goldwork crafted in this village is superb. One can tell at a glance the quality of materials used; the mastery of technique employed.
Yet it does not stir the heart. A goblet shaped by bound hands and broken spirit is devoid of luster.
Compare that now to the works of a joyful artisan. She pours her very soul into her creations, and they shine like the newly risen sun. Have you not seen this to be true?
And so began the custom of goodliving. Happy potsworn make good works, and good works make Mobbies happy!
Gulool Ja Ja's words were wise! Joysmiles did indeed bring fine craft and much jinglyshine!
So the Head of Reason was behind the forging of potpacts...
Yes! Reason and cleverthink changed Mobbies' way of life!
Hmph.
The First Promise tires of your talk of olden days. He would rather look to the future, and the next feat.
We should be getting on as well.
Bakool Ja Ja never did come back, did he?
Pfff... Pfffkohhh... Do you have a moment, Third Promise?
Rakorok would repay you for handhelping with Kaahe. He brings a tale of the golden city!
Really? I'd love to hear it!
The towers, the streets, all fashioned from gold. Everywhere you look, every splendor you can imagine!
The young, the old, and everyone in between, they live in golden happiness. A city of eternal bliss, forever perched above the clouds!
Everything fashioned from gold, eh? And just imagine everyone living in golden happiness─now that's a city I'd like to visit!
Excuse me, Rakorok, where did you hear that particular tale?
From our longtime Yok Huy friends! They live up in the mountains, in Urqopacha.
The giants again...
Seems everything is pointing us their way!
This feat and everything leading up to it has taught me much about the Moblin way of life. I'll be sad to leave Earthenshire and your joysmiles behind!
It unsettles me that Zoraal Ja is even a claimant in the first place. Surely his father cannot condone his violent ambitions...
The Head of Reason in Rediroq's story sounds so different from the Head of Resolve. They share the same body, yet their personalities are wholly distinct.
The stories describe a place of boundless happiness, but are also rife with dire warnings of seekers who did not return. What are we to make of this...?
These tales raise many questions... Let us hope the giants have answers.
Right, we should go and see the giants next!
Agreed. Golden mysteries notwithstanding, their village is featured prominently in the saga and is not to be ignored.
The Urqopacha highlands should be easy enough to reach from here.
If we leave Earthenshire from the west, there's a road which leads up into the mountains. Let's find that first.
This road will take us through the mountains to the Urqopacha highlands. An exhausting route, perhaps, but a straightforward one.
One day we're sailing up rivers, and the next we're hiking up mountains.
We're to meet with the Yok Huy at last...
The highlands are where the Lay of Proof took place─that being Gulool Ja Ja's encounter with the Yok Huy.
But 'tis also the stage for the Lay of Ice, where heroes fought the monstrous Valigarmanda. I am most curious to know what the rite will demand of us there...
Looks like the trail is going to get steep from here on in. I hope everyone is ready for some climbing!
