I...I feel...warm! And my legs, they...they don't feel as heavy...
Now then, have you noted any change in the patients?
A notable rise in body temperature and increased motor function. In most of the patients, at least.
The more severely afflicted show no response.
As I feared, then.
'Tis true that with the restoration of night, the corrupting influence of Light will no longer grow. And yes, their bodies will naturally return to equilibrium given time...
But this holds true only for their corporeal aether. Their incorporeal aether─that of the soul─is not so easily mended.
Which is why those in the later stages of corruption─like Halric─appear unaffected by your tonic.
Precisely.
The boy's soul is too far gone, his mind held together by the finest of threads.
There is a chance he may one day recover, of course, but it could take years─decades, even.
By the gods, he could wake to find himself an old man.
A fine reward for his persistence... The opportunity to mourn the life he never had a chance to live.
No, there must be something we can do.
Look, I realize this is not why we petitioned your aid, but do you think it possible we can find a way to hasten their recovery?
...Maybe.
Nor do I think it impossible that in treating them, we might learn something of relevance to your own predicament...
I suspect the Crystal Exarch has told you of my past. That I was once a mage of the royal court of Voeburt, and that soulcraft was my field of study.
The tonic you administered to the patients here is one of the fruits of my labors. I hoped to do great things for the kingdom...
<sigh> But in the end, my knowledge brought only suffering. A plague the like of which none had ever seen.
In the hands of unscrupulous men, what should have been my greatest triumph instead became my greatest shame...
I know that only too well. Alas, the knowledge we require is steeped in such bitter memories.
That I do. A comforting thought indeed.
Aye, that they did. I shudder to think what might have happened had they not.
But let us return to the task at hand─finding a means by which we might revitalize these people's incorporeal aether.
Do you think it can be done?
Were the skies still ablaze with primordial Light, I would call it an exercise in futility. But now─now we may have a chance.
The method I have in mind will entail the conjuring of a familiar. They are able to amplify the energies poured into them, making them the perfect conduit for the aether-revitalizing magicks we will ultimately employ.
If you're about to launch into a lengthy explanation of the metaphysics of your plan─don't bother. I'd rather get on with doing whatever it is that needs to be done, if it's all the same to you.
Whatever reagents must be procured, or spells invoked─I'll do it.
...I admire your spirit.
Very well. Your first task will be to gather the necessary materials.
The purest of waters and finest of clays, as well as a fae lantern brimming with pixie magick.
If you're convinced the resulting familiar could help the patients─fine.
Alphinaud─the water and clay will be simple enough, but I think you know what we'll have to do to get the lantern.
You don't mean─
The pixies took quite a liking to us before. If we humor them with our company, I'm sure they'll be willing to help us.
...
...Fine. We'll pay a visit to Il Mheg. Though I never thought you would be the one to suggest going back there.
I'm impressed you've been there at all, let alone befriended the fae folk.
Oh, while you're about it, seek out the Nu Mou of Pla Enni. They will be able to supply you with water suitable for our needs.
Right. Let's get this over with, shall we.
There still remains the matter of the clay. Might I prevail upon you to find it?
Clay from Amh Araeng would likely be best. Know you of anyone who might be able to assist us?
Ah, yes! They will be able to point you in the right direction, I am sure.
Scavengers, you say? Well...they may know the lie of the land, but I daresay they are more interested in the trinkets and baubles hiding in the earth than the earth itself. Now, miners on the other hand...
What's that? You know the miners of Twine? Perfect! Speak with them and you should have no trouble procuring what we need.
While you and the twins are occupied, I will see if there is aught else I can learn of the stagnation which afflicts the people here.
Forename! Well, what a coincidence!
You've come at a good time. We've just this moment finished repairing the Talos and trolley you lot took to Nabaath Areng.
The trolley was no trouble, but the Talos would have been another matter, had we not had a visit from Master Chai.
He offered us a share of the leftover building materials from Daedalus Stoneworks, as well as a few trade secrets to help us along.
Clever man, that Chai-Nuzz. He seemed pretty keen on the ideas I had for putting the giant Talos to work.
Like a giant trolley! But Magnus still refuses to see all the good we could do with it...
You're entitled to your dreams, Jeryk, but that doesn't mean you can go harassing our guests with them. Master Chai was just being polite.
And something tells me Forename here didn't come all this way to talk about trolleys. What is it you need, friend?
I see. And this...familiar requires clay from Amh Araeng.
Well, look no further. If anyone can find you some quality clay, it's us.
Saying that, it isn't exactly a commodity nowadays... But there must be some lurking somewhere or other, waiting to be dug up.
If I'm not mistaken, there was a time when they used to take clay from Mount Biran Mines to make adobe bricks.
Place is swarming with coyotes now, but if you're after the good stuff, you could do worse than to look there.
The twins have returned, and in one piece at that. I was convinced the pixies would turn at least one of them into a garden ornament...but no.
...You have the clay, I take it?
Wonderful. We need but combine the clay and the water, then heat the mixture with the fae lantern. After that, it will be a simple matter of settling upon a suitable form, and performing the necessary incantation.
Beq Lugg. I have a question. In the event that we had need of this spell and you weren't around, would it be possible for another to perform the incantation?
Assuming they possessed the requisite skill, yes.
Halric and the others have suffered so much, and I swore to do everything in my power to save them. If there is a chance this spell could do that, I would be the one to invoke it.
...Hmmm. Mayhap you should be the one to do so.
A deep understanding of the subjects' physical state, combined with a strong desire to help them, can drastically increase the magick's effect. And you are plainly more familiar with these people than I.
I daresay there are few in all of Norvrandt more dedicated to finding a cure. Is that not so, Forename?
I'll give it my all. For Halric. For Tesleen...
Is that a challenge? Well, I'll be damned if I let it come to that.
Then we are all of a mind on the matter. Alisaie shall be the one to conjure the familiar.
Let us begin.
I trust you've prepared the clay?
Very good. Now, I would have you sculpt for me...a porxie.
Plump, with floppy ears, and a short, curly tail.
A porxie. I...think I know what you mean...
There we are. H-How's that?
Well... It is certainly creative. There's no denying that.
Yes, yes, I'm no artist. Very funny!
Pay him no mind, child. Though it may look like a grotesque parody of reality, it is what the invoker believes that matters.
You're not helping.
But I speak the truth. If successful, this incantation will turn imagination into reality.
Which is why the only thing of import is what you believe this figure embodies. You must focus. Hold the porxie's image steady in your mind's eye.
Now then, as I taught you. Relax, and allow your energies to flow.
With flesh of clay I bid thee rise,On wings of dreams to touch the skies.What once was idle fantasy,I call forth to reality!
Hmmm. Not bad for a first attempt.
Now, let us see what can be done for young Halric.
Through the operation of the magicks you invoked to animate this familiar, it is now replete with the energies required to stir the boy's soul.
You need but give it a name, and it will do as your heart desires.
A name...
All right, I've decided. Now...
Go, Angelo!
M... Aah...um...
M... Mother... I...
How is he, Beq Lugg? Did it work?
I believe it did. You and your fledgling familiar have done well.
If my eyes do not deceive, a hint of color has returned to his soul.
Gods... I would jump for joy if I weren't so exhausted.
We're so close now, Halric...
As you are even now in the process of discovering, this magick asks much of the invoker. What you may not have realized is that the same is also true of the subject. As such, we must proceed with caution. However, with further treatment, I have the utmost confidence the boy will make a full recovery.
Observing the reanimation of his stagnant soul has been most enlightening. I will need time to put my theories to the proof, but I believe I can fashion a spell to produce the opposite effect. That is, to induce stagnation.
Thus enabling our safe transport back to the Source via auracite!
A thought occurred to me─about this treatment.
Beq Lugg said when the soul is rendered dormant, the mind is separated from the body. That a person becomes incapable of interacting with the world around them.
Does that not sound a lot like some of the tempered back in the Source?
Not really. It is the fate of most tempered to become slaves to primals─save in a handful of cases. Or am I missing something?
If I can master this technique─the art of revitalizing the soul─I know of at least one in the Source who could desperately use such treatment.
Ga Bu. His condition is eerily similar to Halric and the others', the only difference being that his soul was suffused with earth-aspected aether from summoning Titan, rather than Light. It follows that if his soul is subject to a similar kind of stagnation, there may be a chance we can save him...right?
Exactly! His condition is uncannily similar to Halric's, is it not? The only difference being that his soul was suffused with earth-aspected aether instead of Light. It follows that if his soul is subject to a similar kind of stagnation, there may be a chance we can save him...right?
Why shouldn't it? Ga Bu's condition is virtually identical to Halric's, is it not? The only difference being that his soul was suffused with earth-aspected aether instead of Light. It follows that if his soul is subject to a similar kind of stagnation, there may be a chance we can save him.
Forgive me, but who is this Ga Bu fellow of whom you speak?
...I see. His condition does sound similar...yet there is much and more about the soul that remains unknown even to me. I say this not to discourage you, you understand, but to remind you that this is delicate work we do here. Work requiring patience.
Of course. And as long as there is hope for the patients here, I will devote whatever time is needed to see this through.
But I refuse to spend that time in idleness. If it's all the same to you, I'd like to stay here with Angelo and continue with their treatment.
The two of you should return to the Crystarium with Beq Lugg and see if you can't make some headway with their newly posited theories.
I would tell you to rest first, but I see you're not to be convinced. Ah, the fire of youth.
Let us return to the Crystarium, then.
Finally! I've found you!
Kai-Shirr!? What are you doing all the way out here?
There's trouble back in Eulmore. Lady Chai's beside herself. Sighing, pacing, the whole lot. Near enough begged me to go and find you.
...Sighing and pacing, you say? It must be urgent.
I take it I will be returning to the Crystarium alone. Go on, then. It's not as if I have anything for you to do.
Thank you, Beq Lugg.
Sorry for bothering you and all that, but she says the future of Eulmore's at stake.
Lady Chai's up in the parlor. Best not keep her waiting, eh?
Well, naught here seems out of the ordinary, though I do not see Lady Chai anywhere.
Probably pacing around outside again. Staring off into the distance and all that. Sighing.
Strange. Let's see if we can find her, and discover the source of her distress.
Oh, thank heavens you're here.
Lady Chai, whatever is the matter?
I...I knew not where else to turn. Oh, this is all too much for my poor heart to bear alone.
Alone? What of Master Chai?
But that is the very reason I summoned you! He's gone!
What!? What happened!?
It all began after the events at Mt. Gulg...
With Lord Vauthry out of the way, we all agreed that a new leader must be chosen...
And...so you held an election?
Yes. Well...sort of. Not a single person volunteered to stand, you see.
After a lifetime of leisure, we free citizens have grown somewhat...indolent. Readapting to the harsh realities of life is trying enough, but to take charge of a broken city as well? No one wanted such responsibility.
Nevertheless, Eulmore could not well do without a leader, and so we decided that anyone and everyone should be considered a candidate. And after we cast our ballots and tallied the votes, the mayorship fell upon my dear husband.
Well, given the manner in which he orchestrated the construction of the giant Talos, none could deny his leadership qualities.
But even before then, he had proven himself at Daedalus Stoneworks, don't forget. He is more than qualified for the role. The perfect choice.
Indeed, I told him as much when his victory was first announced.
But perhaps I was too forceful in my attempt to encourage him. For shortly after that, he vanished without a word...
You believe he was so daunted by the burden of leadership that he felt compelled to flee...?
Please, Lady Chai, dry your eyes.
Your husband does not strike me as the sort of man who would abandon his duty, much less his beloved wife. There has to be some other reason for his absence.
You...you truly think so?
What about you? What do you think has become of my husband?
And there you have it, Lady Chai. You needn't worry. Master Chai loves you more than all the world, and he will return.
Nay, my friend. The one thing he has not done is flee─of that I am convinced. Through the most testing of times, he has ever remained at Lady Chai's side, placing her happiness before his own. He would not abandon her now.
Wherever he may have gone, rest assured we will find him.
Thank you, my dear boy. You have set my mind at ease. I will trust in my husband, and await his return.
It makes no sense for Master Chai to have left without a word. But even if he had, he would not have done so unobserved.
Someone here will have seen something. I am sure of it.
We should split up and inquire as to whether anyone saw him leave or, failing that, if they have any idea where he might have gone. I will meet you at the Glory Gate to compare notes later on.
