Well, well, aren't we a lively lot! And you have an entreaty for us, you say? An entreaty from mortals─what a treat!
Aye. My comrades and I are on a quest to vanquish the Lightwarden.
To that end, we would humbly beg the loan of the shell crown, which we are given to understand is in the safekeeping of your people.
Oh? Is that all? Of course, of course! You may have it! You shall have it!
Just like that? What do you want from us?
Ohoho, no need to be so suspicious! The crown simply doesn't mean much to us, is all.
As a matter of fact, nothing means much to us. For we Fuath, it's over before it's begun, and we couldn't care less what becomes of the faerie king, nor the world for that matter.
Having said that...we do so seldom have mortal visitors, and it would seem a shame not to make the most of you...
Touch the Untouchable Gate, and come hither to our domain, Dohn Mheg. In your tongue, it means “forbidden realm.” Sounds forbidding, yes?
And so it should, for we are one with the water, our home wrought of ripples and waves and currents. Find your way through. Give us thrilling sport. And we will give you the crown!
When we sally forth, allow me to lead the van. Bearing the brunt is my specialty these days.
While I was in imperial territory, I learned how to wield the gunblade, but I subsequently let my skills go to rust for want of the ability to replenish my own ammunition.
When I decided to rescue Minfilia, however, I knew I needed a more defensively minded style, so I placed a special order at the Crystalline Mean, and the rest is history.
I can fight too. I promise I won't be a burden.
'Twas never like to be simple. Hard though it may seem to believe, the Fuath's love of games surpasseth even that of the pixies.
And in the name of their games, full many men have drowned. We must needs take all care if we are to avoid meeting a watery end.
So they desire sport. It seems safe to say we must proceed fully prepared.
I'll take sport over pixie chores. Let's give the Fuath what they want.
It's like being in a dream...
Yet the dangers of this dream are very real. Be not distracted by its beauty.
