...Wiscar? By Rhalgr, is that really you?
...Oh, it's good to see you alive and well, lad! But who are these other ones?
The Resistance, Grandad. My, er...my comrades-in-arms.
She told you all about me thumbing my nose at the mad king, did she? Heh. Daft sods never caught me neither...
It wasn't much, but it was my way of rebelling against his rule. Glad to see you've got higher aspirations. Here─make our family proud.
I will, I swear! Rhalgr as my witness!
I was worried when he wasn't at the Saltery. But we found him in the end.
Now that we've got the key, it's time to find that underwater tunnel!
We'll need to dive into the lochs and look for a tunnel leading beneath the residential district. That should be no problem for Forename and me, thanks to the Kojin's blessing, but for the rest of you...
I will have you know that I can hold my breath for ten minutes!
...Hm. I think it best that I support M'naago and Arenvald's unit.
Oh, right. You can't swim.
I am aware of that, thank you! But it is neither here nor there, given that I lack both the Kojin's blessing and Thancred's preternatural lung capacity!
Right, right. Of course. I didn't mean anything by it. Nothing at all.
So─Forename, Thancred, and me. Let's head to the water's edge.
Alphinaud and Wiscar can rejoin the others and wait outside the gates for us to let them in.
This looks like as good a place as any...
Ere you dive into the briny deep─
Urianger! What are you doing here?
Master Alphinaud informed me of your plan, and thus did I hasten to your side.
When Mistress Alisaie unfolded to me the tale of her defeat, I was much intrigued by the apparent ease with which Fordola, a theretofore unexceptional warrior, defied my lady's every attempt to do her harm.
After some few days of deliberation, I subsequently contrived what I believe to be a solution to the problem of her preternatural prescience. 'Twas in hopes of furnishing you with the fruits of my labors that I came.
Wait, isn't that Moenbryda's─
Her aetheric siphon formed the basis for my design.
Should my hypothesis prove correct, you need but activate it in her presence. To say more would endanger the plan, for ignorance is your shield.
It was...Moenbryda's time. It is not yours, my friends.May you ever walk in the light of the Crystal...and return.
We will─for you and for her.
Right! I'm going in. Follow me!
The tunnel leads east. Thancred's already gone ahead.Let's not keep him waiting!
Whew! That was fun!
Yes, yes. Tremendous fun. Who needs a beastman's blessing anyway?
I still can't believe you managed to hold your breath the entire time. It felt like we were down there for hours!
Anyway, it's time we let our friends in.
Once we head up these stairs, we'll need to make our way to the main gates, which are...somewhere to the west of here?
Forgive me for stating the obvious, but it bears repeating that until we open the gates, we three are on our own. 'Twould be in our best interest to avoid guards and easily startled smallfolk.
Obviously. But once our guests have arrived, we'll be free to head towards the research facility where Krile's being held as loudly as we like.
Since you've been here before, will you lead the way?
Of course. But I will move quickly, so see that you do not fall behind.
Nothing left to say, then. Let's get to it!
All set, Forename?
Follow my lead. Stay close and quiet.
Wait! Patrol. Let them pass...
All clear. With me!
Sentry! Get to cover! I will deal with him...
And none were the wiser... Let us press on.
Here we are... Ah, one more sentry. Give me a moment.
Forename, look for a lever or a winch!We will guard the rear!
Hells open, heavens weep...Alphinaud, can you hear me? The gates are open!
Our friends are ready and eager to engage the imperials!
Then let us leave them to it and head for the facility!
Remember the Reach! Remember the towers! Attack!
