Third Promise!
I'm glad I caught you... Rediroq asked me to bring you back to the village.
She says there's something she forgot to give you.
Huh...? Something other than the keystone?
Yes, an item of great importance, or so I was told. It shouldn't take long, if you would please follow me.
I wonder what this is all about? Well, no need for everyone to come─I'll be back in a little while!
Knowing Wuk Lamat, she was probably eating sweets behind our backs and forgot to pay the shopkeeper or something equally careless.
That man seemed familiar somehow... But I just can't place him.
He had rather interesting hair for a Hyur...or should I say Tonawawta? In any case, strange that I never noticed him while we were in Earthenshire.
I'm eager to continue to the highlands and meet a Yok Huy face-to-face. We've heard much about them, but I'm not entirely sure what to expect.
This is taking quite a while... Just keep waiting for now, I suppose.
Perhaps there were complications? Well, let us wait a little longer.
I'm eager to continue to the highlands and meet a Yok Huy face-to-face. We've heard much about them, but I'm not entirely sure what to expect.
That man seemed familiar somehow... But I just can't place him.
Knowing Wuk Lamat, she was probably eating sweets behind our backs and forgot to pay the shopkeeper or something equally careless.
He had rather interesting hair for a Hyur...or should I say Tonawawta? In any case, strange that I never noticed him while we were in Earthenshire.
This is getting a little ridiculous. Did she get lost on the way back to find us?
But how? There's only the one road.
I wouldn't underestimate Wuk Lamat's sense of direction...or lack thereof.
Fortunately, she has a linkpearl. Let's see what's keeping her, shall we?
She's not responding... Perhaps we should all return to Earthenshire.
'Twas Rediroq who had business with her, yes?
She doesn't seem to be here...
I'd thought Wuk Lamat was just being her usual impulsive self, but now I'm not so certain...
Something's not right. I can feel it...
I pray naught untoward has befallen the Third Promise.
Pfff... Pfffkohhh... Back again so soon?
We've come looking for Wuk Lamat. Did you not send someone to fetch her?
Rediroq did not! Neither has she seen the Third Promise since you were last here.
Then who was that man who came for her...?
Oh? I thought you'd left already.
Where is Lamaty'i? Is she not with you?
You don't know where she is? How could you let this happen!?
That thou shouldst worry for thy sister is understandable. Yet rather than assign blame, thine energies are better spent on locating her.
I will help you search. This is not how I'd wish a fellow claimant to lose the contest─my sister least of all.
In that case, dividing our forces will allow us to cover more ground.
Forename and I should work together at least, the better to facilitate communication between our groups.
Then the rest of us will split up. Report in should you find anything.
We'll be on our way as well.
Right. Keep in touch.
Come─we should begin our search.
This is most worrisome! If Rediroq hears anything, she will let you know!
If Lamaty'i was returning to Earthenshire from the west, then she should have passed through here...except Rediroq swears she didn't see her.
In which case, 'tis entirely possible that Lamaty'i never made it back to the village at all.
The only way to be certain is to ask the sentry stationed at the opposite entrance.
If the guard did not see Lamaty'i, then we can be fairly sure she's not in Earthenshire. She's not one to pass without notice.
