Glory to the khagan and her comrades! Forever and forever! A hundred years! The khagan!
Ah, Forename! I am told you gave the young warriors a fine show!
Grandmother and I have been discussing how we might best express our gratitude to you. Mere words did not seem sufficient.
This is a morin khuur─a traditional instrument of our people.
The feats of our greatest heroes, like Bardam and Chakha, are preserved in song. Yours too will live on for years to come.
Perhaps one day you might learn how to play it! But, even if not, you may look on the morin khuur and remember this time, this place.
At the risk of sounding impatient, we have certain pressing obligations. It is time that we saw to them.
...You are right. To whom much is given, much is expected.
Nay, do not think yourselves so indebted to us. Was it not you who gave us your blessing to participate in the Naadam─and you who saved my lord Hien from certain death?
Doma is in your debt, and will ever be a friend to the Mol.
And we to you, Gosetsu!
A thought occurs to me. If you wish to return to Yanxia with all haste, the passage to the south of the Dusk Throne would offer the most direct route.
The Dotharl sealed it with their magicks during the Doman rebellion, when more men in iron came from afar.
If ever there were a time to open the pass, it is now. We should journey to Dotharl Khaa.
But before that, might we visit the Dawn Throne? I wish to speak with our most radiant brother.
Are you sure that's a good idea? I know he agreed to fight for Doma, but I doubt he'll be very happy to see us so soon after we beat him.
Nhaama made us for war, Lyse. Ever since we came into this world, we have fought.
In the Naadam, blood was shed, and lives were lost. Brown earth was stained crimson, and Xaela wept.
But crimson is the dusk and the dawn. Death and rebirth. An ending to mark a new beginning.
“We who are born are destined to die.As the seasons turn, we are born again.”Thus spoke the first.
So you see, we harbor no hatreds. The Naadam is the Naadam, and what comes after is what comes after!
If you say so... The Dawn Throne first, then?
Yes. And I shall accompany you!
The Sun is disinclined to entertain you at length. Speak your purpose in coming.
<sigh> Humble as ever...
Should I be humble in the presence of inferiors? I am a child of Azim, and you are not. Your triumph in the Naadam does not raise you to such heights.
Baatu will not be joining us. He was wounded in the Naadam.
...His hurts are grave, and he requires rest. But he will walk again in time.
Though it is no business of yours. Such pity does not become a khagan. We are not allies, traveler─far from it. The Naadam will come again, and with it our rule.
I say again, why have you come? To bid us surrender the Dawn Throne to the Mol?
N-Nay. The Mol are beholden to the will of the gods, and they would not have us reside here. The Oronir and the Buduga may remain.
We are for Yanxia, and wished to speak of your part in the coming war.
Ah, the Domans and the ironmen. I remember our pact. Sound the call and the Oronir will answer.
Full glad am I to hear it. We have preparations to attend to, but will send for you soon.
The gods are kind! I am sure the Oronir will prove a great boon in the days to come.
Of the dusk...a maiden gentle and ethereal. A dancer in the morning mist. And a warrior besides...
Look into my eyes, child! See you Azim? Are you my Nhaama!?
I...I know not of what you speak, Brother Magnai, but I am certain you are mistaken. Quite.
We should get going. Right now.
Hmph. The khagan and her warriors.
Greetings, my lady. We come to you on our journey south, bound for Yanxia where our comrades await us. How fare you and yours in the wake of the Naadam?
Many were wounded. Some few to the death.
...Resplendent were their souls in the chaos. It was a good battle─a good day to die. Soon we will greet them again.
...And mayhap one who went before them also. Geser's seed has quickened in his lover. When the child is born, we shall see who waits behind its eyes.
Already we must look to the next Naadam. We must grow strong of body and mind, and your war will help us do so. Say the word and we will fly to the field.
Of that I have no doubt. For you are Dotharl.
There is one more thing we would ask of you... The magicks you used to seal the passage to the south. Will you unmake them?
If that be your wish.
When next we come together, it will be on a great battlefield against a common foe. I trust you will fight with the same fervor you demonstrated during the Naadam.
Hah! And you, ancient one, will be the demon I know you to be. Aught less would be a disappointment.
Sadu Khatun has done her part. This passage will deliver you to Doma.
It is here we must part ways, until the day you call us to battle.
It won't be long, I know, but...take care of yourself, Cirina. And tell your grandmother and the others again how much we appreciate everything they did for us.
I will. Oh, I nearly forgot! I have another gift for you.
Oh, it's...a red, um...? Wait, is this a banner of the Mol tribe?
It is not the most practical of gifts, but we nevertheless wished to present it to you.
I do not fully understand what has befallen Doma, or your homeland, Lyse. But I do understand that you and yours have suffered terribly.
The Mol place their faith in the gods, and in turn they shepherd us. They watch over and keep us. We pray they show you the same favor.
As it was in the Naadam, blood will be shed, your lands engulfed in a storm of fire and steel. Yet as it did here, it shall mark a new beginning there.
May you ever walk in crimson. For in crimson there is life. There is liberation.
Thank you for your prayers, Cirina. We shall remember them.
Until we meet again!
Right, then. To the House of the Fierce. With me, my friends!
I have not used this road before, but... Ah. I recognize this place.
The House of the Fierce should lie somewhere to the south. I will go on ahead and inform the sentries of our master's return.
Here we are! I wonder if they all are gathered inside, waiting...perhaps expecting a speech or some such...
Well! No matter! I shall have to do what I shall have to do!
Brothers and sisters, pray forgive me my absence. It has been far too long.
Lord Hien!
Gosetsu told us of your trials and tribulations on the Steppe. Would that I had been present to witness your victory, my lord.
Our victory, Yugiri, owed as much to each of my stalwart comrades as it did to me. Now, rise─I will not suffer this excess of formality any longer.
Alphinaud and Alisaie Leveilleur, I presume? I am told we owe you much.It is a pleasure to meet you both.
The pleasure is ours, Lord Hien. Though we were born and raised a world apart, our values are one and the same: freedom, justice, liberty. Each of which Doma shall soon enjoy once more.
Hopefully. I understand you have brought an army?
Indeed. The Xaela tribes of the Azim Steppe have pledged their military might to the cause.
Good. We, meanwhile, have secured the support of the Confederacy, and a not insignificant number of your countrymen.
The Blue Kojin, too, have expressed a willingness to join the fight─provided you agree to certain trade agreements following the liberation of Doma.
The shinobi will render what aid they can. However, Sui-no-Sato refused to answer our call.
No matter. What forces we have amassed far exceed my original expectations. You have my thanks.
You should know that Zenos departed Doma not long after you left to find Lord Hien. We know not the reason why, but it would seem he was eager to return to Gyr Abania.
What? Have you heard anything from the Resistance? There hasn't been another attack, has there?
Tataru assures me they are quite well. You need not worry. If anything, this turn of events would seem to be to our advantage.
But there the good news ends. Yotsuyu retains her position as acting viceroy, and we have reports that the garrison at Doma Castle is preparing for a massive operation...
We suspect that the Empire's attempt to eliminate you on the Steppe may have been a prelude to a larger effort to purge the remaining pockets of resistance within Doma.
The hour of reckoning is upon us.
Hah hah hah! The khagan has spoken! And I for one am not inclined to argue.
It will not be easy, that much I cannot deny. Had we more time to prepare, mayhap it would be different.
Do not forget, however, that we have been blessed with comrades brave and true, whom the Empire will have no appetite to face. If you doubt me, you need only look in the mirror.
In this place, in this moment, I call upon you all! Twenty-five years of oppression, of tyranny, of shame─it ends with us! We will prevail!
Once more, welcome back. It is good to see you again, Forename.
Ah, yes. There is another recent development we neglected to share with you.
Alisaie and I have been hard at work attempting to restore the aetheryte here to its former glory...and I am pleased to inform you that we succeeded!
Suffice it to say, it should prove a boon for travel─well, for those replete with anima like you, at least...
I imagine you are eager to hear the particulars of our plan. Allow me a moment to gather everyone's attention...
If all are in agreement, I will outline my plan to retake Doma Castle.
First, Lyse and the Doman irregulars will conduct a series of raids against imperial targets throughout the surrounding area, with the aim of drawing the garrison's attention.
Shortly thereafter, our Xaela allies will launch a surprise attack on the castle's airborne defenses.
In this way, we will prevent the enemy's airships from rendering support, and cut off one means of escape.
Alisaie and I, together with the shinobi, will exploit the ensuing chaos to infiltrate the Moon Gates and disable the magitek field generators.
Once the barrier is down, we will be free to cross the One River and reach Doma Castle. It is at this point that we must turn to our Confederate andKojin allies.
They will commence to bombard the castle with cannon fire, while sailing west towards the Doman Enclave.
Wait, the enclave? Why would you want them to sail away from the castle?
Because the enclave is home to countless civilians.
Once pressed, the imperials may well think to take them hostage, and I would fain forestall any such attempt.
After we have secured the enclave, we may lay siege to Doma Castle directly. The main strength of the Doman Liberation Front, under Lord Hien's command, shall be committed to this endeavor, as will you and your redoubtable allies.
The rest is simple. We scour the castle for the viceroy, we find her, and we subdue her. Without their leader, what remains of the imperials' morale will crumble, and they will surrender or attempt to flee. And Doma will be free.
Your thoughts, Lord Hien? If any points were unclear or gave you cause for concern, I should be glad to go over them with you.
Nay, 'tis a fine plan. You have a talent for this, that much is plain.
We shall carry out Alphinaud's plan to the letter. Time is of the essence, as you know, so let us each see to our respective preparations. Carry on!
There is no shortage of tasks which must needs be completed before we can launch our attack. If you have a moment, perhaps you could lend a hand?
That said, I have only just returned. 'Twould be better for you to speak with Alphinaud to find out how you might be of service.
Trying to keep busy? Full glad am I to hear it. There is one task which comes to mind.
As I explained during my briefing, Alisaie and I will need to infiltrate the Moon Gates to disable the magitek field generators.
Though I pride myself on my knowledge of various subjects, I must confess I lack confidence in my knowledge of this particular one. Which is why I turned to an expert.
I have been conversing with Cid via Tataru, attempting to ascertain the design of the generators based on our limited intelligence. Most recently he sent a parcel with some documents which he believes may be of use.
I would like for you to go to Kugane and bring them back here.
In the meantime, I will continue to work with our shinobi allies to plot a path into the gates. Safe travels, Forename, and thank you again.
Greetings, honored madam. Will you be entering the Ruby Bazaar offices?
Forename!? What are you doing here? I thought you were off fighting nomads on the Azim Steppe!
...Oh, you beat them! Good show! A shame I didn't get to see it.
Alphinaud has been keeping me apprised of the situation in Doma. I may not be any good in a physical fight, but in an, err...paperwork...fight, I'm the true khagan! Yeah!
You're here for the parcel Cid sent, right? Wait a moment, and it will be right out!
It arrived not long ago. A porter delivered it to our offices, along with various other knickknacks from Eorzea.
Cid regrets that he couldn't come here in person. Apparently his hunt for the dragon and Omega demands his full attention, you see...
Still, he was reasonably confident that the documents he provided would be enough for Alphinaud to do the work himself. So as soon as that parcel gets here, we can open it up and see what's inside!
Pardon my interruption, but the parcel in question─was it the one you placed on the shelf in the back for safekeeping?
I believe so, yes. Why do you ask?
Well, you see, on closer inspection, said parcel appears to have been addressed to the Sekiseigumi Barracks.
Though it does indeed bulge with a quantity of paper reminiscent of a rather large instruction manual, the lingering scent of lilac leads me to conclude it is in fact a sizable collection of love letters...
What!? Impossible! That porter was carrying a parcel addressed to us! I saw the writing with my own eyes!
Oh, I do not doubt that in the least. However, as he was tasked with a number of deliveries, I can only presume that he handed you another parcel by mistake.
This is a disaster! We have to find that porter right this instant!
My, she can move quickly when she has a mind to do so. So quickly she neglected to take these love letters with her. They too must be redirected to their rightful recipient.
They should also aid you in tracking down the right porter. They keep records of their deliveries and so forth, after all.
The man in question was of middling height and build. Not unlike myself. Black hair, short─terribly helpful in Kugane, I know. A cheery sort. Wearing bright colors, as I recall?
I will send a few of my men out to search, but in the meantime, why don't you take the parcel and see if you can't track him down yourself? I will wait here, on the off chance he realizes his mistake and returns.
