Biggs!
Wedge! You shouldn't have stayed with the ship!
Th-That was a close one!
Too damn close. So...how's she look, anyway?
The auxiliary propeller is a dead loss, but I think we can wring enough thrust from the main propeller to get us airborne.
A few minor modifications and we should be able to fly the Tiny Bronco home.
We'll stand watch until the ship is ready to take off. The imperials will come looking for their scouts eventually, but I doubt they'll get here for a good while yet.
Surname─you're free to return to Maelstrom Command and complete your induction.
Ordinarily, I'd ask you to stay, but I think we'd all feel better knowing an adventurer of your ability was safely sworn in and ready for the next mission! Rest assured, I'll inform Command of the part you played today.
I, um...just wanted to say sorry...you know, for calling you an imperial spy and all that... Got that one wrong, didn't I!? Ha ha! Seriously, though─if it hadn't been for you and the Twin Adder lads there, we'd be chained up in a dungeon by now. I'm in your debt, friend─we both are.
Wedge!
Thank you! We're very grateful!
Welcome back, Surname. I just heard the report.
You needn't be concerned about the engineers─they completed their return trip without further imperial interference.
...I must admit, I had my doubts at first, but it seems the stories about you are true.
I look forward to seeing what else you're capable of...after you're properly inducted into the Maelstrom, of course!
Now, speaking of your induction...
Let us start afresh, shall we?
You are welcome here, Forename Surname. That such as well-respected adventurer would choose to join our ranks is most heartening. Before you swear your allegiance to us, however, it is only right that I tell you exactly what it is that you will be joining.
A Grand Company is more than simply a collection of soldiers. It is an all-encompassing organization which draws upon the resources of an entire city-state to form a united military force capable of standing against a nation's deadliest enemies.
We of the Maelstrom are charged with meeting the threats posed by the primals and the Garlean Empire, and solving the many problems caused by the Calamity.
Every man and woman who serves under our colors has a role to play in keeping the great warship that is Limsa Lominsa afloat, and on whatever heading Chief Admiral Merlwyb Bloefhiswyn sees fit to set.
As part of the grand vessel's crew, you will be expected to take your turn at the oars—for the winds do not look favorable, lass, and strength of arm may be all that sees us safe to port.
...If I've lost you with talk of ship and oar, let me put it another way: a Maelstrom soldier labors till her last breath, fights till her last drop of blood. We give our all in service to this nation, and no less is expected of you.
Surname—it is customary for new recruits to swear an oath of their own choosing upon entering the Maelstrom's ranks. Is there aught you'd like to say?
And I've no doubt we'll need it! Keep your weapons close to hand, lass.
Ah yes, the many and varied skills of the adventurer! I've no doubt that your travels have furnished you with such knowledge as will prove invaluable to our cause.
As would we all! A capable crew is one thing, but unswerving loyalty is a trait that cannot be trained or bought. Well said, lass.
No love for grandiose proclamations, eh? Ha! Such silent resolve is not uncommon among the brothers and sisters of the sea.
Forename Surname, I hereby assign you the rank of storm private third class. You are now officially a soldier of the Maelstrom.
Welcome aboard, Private. May you serve Limsa Lominsa well, till sea swallows all.
Can you hear me, Forename? This is Minfilia.
An officer of the Order of the Maelstrom contacted me with news of your enlistment. My congratulations, Private Surname.
I have no doubt that you are eager to make the acquaintance of your new comrades, but I would ask that you pay a visit to your old ones first. Remember: though you are now a woman of the Storm, you are no less a Scion! Pray return to the Waking Sands at your earliest convenience. There are some friends here whom I would very much like you to meet. We shall be waiting!
No rest for the wicked, eh?
Before you make yourself scarce, I recommend having a word with Commander Rhiki. Might be worth your while...
Welcome back, Forename! Lady Minfilia awaits you within.
Welcome back! It seems you wasted no time putting your skills to work!
How do I know? Why, the recruitment officer called to regale me with the tale of your heroics. The pride in his voice was palpable!
We Scions are truly fortunate to have you with us, Forename.
Now, when last we spoke, I said that I wanted you to meet some friends, did I not? Well, I neglected to mention that you have already met.
Tataru─please show them in.
This way, sirs!
Thanks again for getting us out of that mess. We owe you our lives.
But I don't think we've properly introduced ourselves. I'm Biggs.
A-And I'm...I'm...
Gods, man, spit it out, will you!?
W-Wedge, at your service!
I am pleased to say that Biggs and Wedge will be staying with us for a while.
Magitek-driven contraptions such as airships grow ever more vital to the city-states of Eorzea. As a neutral party, it was judged that we Scions should serve as the keepers of this technology.
Of course, for this we needed the knowledge of experts. And so we requested the assistance of Garlond Ironworks, who very kindly sent us two of their finest engineers.
Our happy family continues to grow. On behalf of the Scions, I bid you welcome to the Waking Sands!
Like every soul here, I love Eorzea.
And I count myself blessed to have been given this chance to stand with you all and fight for the future of the realm.
Never have I known such fulfillment─such happiness.
Ah, I take it the Elder Seedseer's words have touched your heart. Have you resolved to entwine your destiny with that of the Twin Adder?
You have chosen wisely, my friend! The Elder Seedseer will be overjoyed!
Without further ado, let us speak of practical matters. In order to complete the enrollment procedure, you must report to the Adders' Nest.
Ah...forgive me. In my eagerness to embrace you as a sister, I mistook your intention.
I daresay you know it well from your wanderings in New Gridania. Give your name to the personnel officer there, and he will guide you through the formalities.
I have no doubt but that your deeds will bring great honor to our order. When next we meet in Gridania, I shall be proud to call you sister!
