Pardon? You wish to slay the Lord of Crags?
We must slay him, Captain. The people of Limsa Lominsa are depending upon us.
Hmph. You fancy yourselves heroes, then─just like in the tales?
Be not so quick to judge. Long have I labored for the well-being of you and yours. And my associate here has bathed in Ifrit's hellfire and lived.
She is blessed with a power that protects her from primal influence. Thus was she able to lay low the Lord of the Inferno.
We know full well the risks, and have taken every possible precaution. We lack only the knowledge of how to enter Titan's lair. Pray be so good as to grant us the boon of your wisdom, and we shall be on our way.
A woman who can't be tempered? Useful...but it will not be enough.
It is true that the Company of Heroes fought and felled primals─but each victory was bought with the lifeblood of brave men and women.
And Titan was the worst we faced. Aye, we defeated him─in the end─but he took from us some of our very best.
Even if you possess the power you claim, I have no reason to believe you will succeed.
Believe what you will. We mean to try.
Though our lives be forfeit, we will not abandon Limsa to the wrath of Titan.
You are passionate, I'll grant you that...
...And you deserved better than the greeting I gave you. But I will not send you into O'Ghomoro on a whim. To be plain, I do not wish to see you give your lives in vain.
At the very least, I must have assurances that you are more than common adventurers.
I oversee security for Master Gegeruju's estates. Perhaps you can demonstrate your abilities by attending to one of our─
Ye gods, man─have you heard nothing I have said? We have not the time to perform trivial tasks. The enemy is at the gates!
Do you imagine words can sway me, girl?
If you dislike my conditions, then you are welcome to find your own way into O'Ghomoro.
<sigh> Though it pains me to admit it, I fear we have no choice but to acquiesce to the man's demands.
Yet much remains to be done if we are to best Titan. Forgive me, but I must ask you to undertake this task alone. I will use the time to see to the remaining preparations.
Leaving the dirty work to others, are we? Heh, very well.
Pray do whatever the good captain bids...however trifling. Remember: the fate of Limsa Lominsa hangs in the balance.
Master Gegeruju's requests can be more demanding than you realize. Before I set you to your true task, I would like to verify that this won't be a waste of my time.
A nix has recently been seen prowling the beach to the east. As you can imagine, my master does not want large slimy creatures anywhere near his lands.
The beast is cunning, but you should have no difficulty luring it out with herring.
Slay the nix and return to me. Oh, and don't forget to bring me a leg as proof of the kill.
Well? Did you deal with the nix?
Lest you think me overly cautious for testing you in this way, you should know that we had an incident not long ago. A foolish young employee was dismissed for lying about his past. He claimed to have served in the Company of Heroes, but I knew for a fact he did not.
Anyway, now that the pointless busywork is finished, I shall give you a challenge as befits your talents.
Two highly distinguished individuals are scheduled to visit Costa del Sol in the near future, and Master Gegeruju wishes to welcome them with an elaborate banquet.
But while money is no object, not everything Master Gegeruju desires can be so easily purchased.
It is to be an extremely exotic feast. And so, Forename, your mission is to seek out and obtain the rare ingredients our chef requires.
Naturally, such fine dining must be accompanied with a suitable wine. And by “suitable,” I mean “the very best there is.” That, however, can wait for the time being, as I believe you have enough on your plate as it is.
It will be a long and arduous journey, but you need not toil alone. Many of the mercenaries who once served under my command still live, and they will guide you in your quest. For the first ingredient, I would have you travel to the South Shroud and speak with Landenel at Camp Tranquil.
...What? Do you mean to tell me that you cannot afford to waste time, as your associate did?
Adventurer, if you have not the endurance to complete this mission, how do you expect me to believe you can outlast the Lord of Crags? Either do it or don't─I have work to do.
