Ahhh, you have freed me! Much appreciated, much appreciated indeed! But where are my manners? Whisper, at your service! I am a Yo-kai, a supernatural being!
I know, I know. You are wondering why I was in that spooky stone capsule. I was floating along, taking in the scenery when night fell and I lost sight of the path. I wandered until I came across a small boy and asked him how to return to Bentbranch.
But that self-righteous horned child declared me an unnatural presence in the forest, and locked me away! Oh, I was so horribly cramped!
Why would he do such a thing to an innocent visitor of his lands? I never said I was an evil supernatural being. I was defenseless, I tell you. Utterly defenseless! Unwary! Vulnerable!
Aaanyway, I happen to come from a tribe of Yo-kai who know how to reward their liberators properly, and therefore, I have a gift to bestow upon you, my new corporeal friend. Here!
That impressive device is a called a Yo-kai Watch. It will allow you to encounter other supernatural beings like myself! With that on your wrist, the mundane will become magnificent! Oh, the unbelievable things you'll see with that watch!
...If it weren't broken. Now, now, do not think I would give my savior a watch entirely beyond repair. It's just that I had not found someone worthy enough for a long time. My friend had been meaning to take a look at it, but─
Yes, that's him all right! He sent you to rescue me? Splendid, splendid! So he was waiting for me at the Gold Saucer, was he? Had I not gotten lost and put in my precarious position, I surely would have set off for the desert at once.
Let us depart without delay! If you give the watch to him when we arrive, I am sure he will repair it for you. And then it will allow you to encounter unbelievable beings like myself!
Whew, we've reached the Gold Saucer at last! Now would be the opportune moment to present my pal with that stylish Yo-kai Watch I conferred upon you. He'll find a way to mend it in no time since he's a creator─er, a creative sort!
Whisper explained everything that transpired. What luck you were able to find my friend. Had you not, I would have never known he had been sealed inside that vessel! You have my sincerest gratitude.
He told me you have something to show me as well?
Ah, I see. So he decided to give you the Yo-kai Watch. ...A broken Yo-kai Watch, rather.
However, there's no need to worry. Whatever my spirited companion did to it appears to be completely reparable. Wait a moment while I get out my tools.
Mmmhm... Yes, I see... Unjam the slot... Set that hand back a couple of ticks... Polish up the face and...
Success! Your watch is now in excellent shape. Go on, take it!
And a bargain is a bargain. You wished to know more about my mysterious minions, yes?
I'm certain Whisper mentioned the Yo-kai to you. I brought a handful of these supernatural beings with me from my homeland. Like Whisper, this feisty feline is also a Yo-kai, but from a different tribe.
Some Yo-kai grow to be quite friendly once they get to know you. Others, however, are mischievous, and to blame for otherwise inexplicable happenings. If you wish, I can introduce you to the more affable ones I've brought.
Should the Yo-kai warm up to you, they become stalwart allies who you can summon to fight at your command...well, at the Gold Saucer anyway. But there is a slight caveat. I cannot accept Eorzean currency for my services; I deal primarily in Yo-kai Medals.
I'm feeling generous since you helped me retrieve Whisper, so I'll give you one for free. To obtain more, well, that's where your Yo-kai Watch will come in handy. Should you chance upon certain fate-ful happenings, put the watch on your wrist and you shall be rewarded for your meritorious deeds.
In addition to the Yo-kai, I also brought other wares which may interest an adventurer like you: exotic weapons, specially designed by the fine artisans of my company. We accept Legendary Medals as payment for these weapons.
Here. Should our weapons suit your tastes, this Yo-kai Medallium will prove useful in explaining where you can obtain the necessary Legendary Medals for each weapon. A bit of an inconvenience, I know, but I would be a terrible businessman if I simply gave our wares away for free.
Whew...Whisper's long-windedness is starting to rub off on me. Feel free to speak with me about the Yo-kai or the weapons at your leisure. I still have a few loose ends to tie up here at the Gold Saucer, so trust that I won't be wandering for a while.
Oh, and my real name is...Nohi. Yes, Nohi. Glad to finally make your acquaintance.
Yo-kai Medals are a symbol of entering a sacred bond. More than a friendship, more than a marriage! With the Yo-kai Watch, you will be able to gain those medals. I told you that it would allow you to encounter unbelievable beings, didn't I?
When I was lost in those deep woods, I met a fluffy little creature who was white as snow and floated through the air like a cloud, only to vanish before my eyes. Could it be that I had my first encounter with an Eorzean Yo-kai?
A pleasure to see you again. Have you come to meet more Yo-kai? Or perhaps browse my array of special goods?
Well if it isn't the master weapons collector herself! How may I be of service to you?
Hmm... You appear to be lacking the required medals. Apologies, but business is business─I'll have to ask you to come back when you've found some more.
Let's get you acquainted, then. Meet your new friend, Damona! I hope you two will get along!
Why, you've befriended all the Yo-kai I've brought with me! Might it be said that you're quite taken by them? If so, I suggest you come and visit my homeland where you can find more. So many more.
I'm afraid you'll have to come back when you acquire some Legendary Medals. I understand obtaining such rare pieces can be difficult, but think of the marvelous rewards you will reap for your efforts! I believe in you!
Sword and shield, eh? That's my favorite kind. Here you are, your Whisker of the Brave Cat and Buckler of the Legendary Cat.
Here you are, your new weapon! Go on, try it out!
I'm afraid you'll have to come back when you acquire some Legendary Medals. I understand obtaining such rare pieces can be difficult, but think of the marvelous rewards you will reap for your efforts! I believe in you!
Terribly sorry, but this prize is meant only for those who have befriended each and every Yo-kai. If you wish to earn it, you can start by gathering Yo-kai Medals and growing your circle of companions!
Why did I choose to travel to Eorzea? Aside from business, I also came to visit a friend of mine. He's prone to wandering himself, but I always know when he's close by the jangling sound he makes when he walks.
Speaking of jangling, I found my coin pouch rather empty after I arrived at the Gold Saucer. I must have dropped some medals from my homeland when I made my way here after searching for Whisper.
This must be one of the finest exchanges I've had in my travels. I cannot recall the last time an adventurer purchased so many of my weapons. I must say I'm impressed!
Ah! It appears my old friend has come to visit me. Well, don't be shy, now! Come on over!
My apologies, Nohi. I did not want to intrude on what looked like a lively conversation between the two of you.
I'll say. Forename just finished acquiring thirteen of my finest weapons! Built herself quite an arsenal, she did!
Thirteen!? Well then, allow me to extend my congratulations to you as well.
It must have been as tedious as taming a warlion. I can imagine how thrilled you must feel, having obtained long sought-after rewards.
Yes indeed, tantalizing rewards, for adventurers who throw themselves headfirst into the heat of savage battles. Wouldn't you agree, my minstrel friend?
W—Wait just a moment, we need not discuss such complicated matters now. After all, we are in the midst of celebrating her achievement, are we not?
Indeed. It's a shame my stay in Eorzea is only temporary. I'm rather curious to see what becomes of your story. Rather, on behalf of my company, I would like to—
Right, have fun, you two!
Hey, come back here! I still have some affairs to speak with you about! Hmph. He's always so elusive when I mention the savagery of combat.
Nevertheless, I was saying perhaps we can go on an adventure on our own somewhere in the future. As friends! Until then, Forename.
My word! It seems you have claimed one of each of the weapons I have on offer. I cannot imagine how you could possibly carry such an arsenal, let alone actually use it, but I feel congratulations are in order.
And it would appear that another unlikely event is about to unfold, for my friend the minstrel has returned from his wandering.
I do hope I am not interrupting your celebrations...but am I to understand that someone has at last collected a full set of those charming instruments of destruction? A fine achievement, even if only for achievement's sake.
To have done so in such a short span of time is commendable indeed. Perhaps I should have charged more for them?
If you had, I have no doubt this fine young adventurer would have risen to the challenge regardless.
But rather than speak on your behalf, mayhap you might share your thoughts on this momentous undertaking?
Most admirable! And for what it's worth, it was an honor to supply you with said knickknacks.
In any case, the deed is done, and the time has come for me to bid you farewell. Until our paths next cross, adventurer!
Where might his wandering take him next, I, ah...wonder.
Like him, you are also not wont to stay in one place overlong. I pray that when next we meet, we might have some new tales to share. Take care, my friend.
Greetings, adventurer! I'm Kipih Jakkya, reporter for The Raven, Gridania's leading tabloid. I'm hoping that I can rely on your kind assistance.
Greetings, adventurer! It's been a while....Hm? Do not tell me you've forgotten about Kipih Jakkya, reporter for The Raven?
You see, a certain rumor has been making its rounds of late.
No few travelers passing through Thanalan report seeing an unusual black vehicle along with peculiar mechanical soldiers. Do you happen to know anything about them?
No? Let me tell you, then, that there is growing concern that they might be some unknown type of Garlean weaponry. Why, even the good people of Garlond Ironworks have been called upon to investigate.
This promises to be a most compelling story, and I intend to be the first reporter to tell it. But in order to do that, I require the contribution of good folk such as yourself.
Lest you wonder, the black vehicle was most recently sighted near Black Brush, in central Thanalan. Should you come into any information, I ask that you bring me word without delay!
The most recent sightings of the black vehicle took place near Black Brush, in central Thanalan. Should you come into any information, I ask that you bring me word without delay!
