Excuse me! You're the Warrior of Darkness...aren't you?
Where are you from, really? And how did you get to be so strong!?
By your deeds has the blinding Light been banished from these skies, and the sin eaters driven to retreat.
Although our many hurts will be years in the mending, I have faith that this world and her people will one day be whole once more.
With no Rejoining in prospect, the Source need no longer fear the coming of an Eighth Umbral Calamity.
And with that triumph, the future from which you came will no longer come to pass... Yet, here you still stand.
...So I do. I wonder if that other age continues onward somehow, cut adrift from time's flow? Or have I simply etched myself a place upon this new block of history?
Either way, this is an unexpected development.
As the summoner of your souls, my death was meant to release you back to your world.
Yet I am very much alive, and you are still stuck here in the First.
I believe I speak for us all when I say that we are happy to postpone our return if it means your life is spared. We will seek out another way.
Besides, I never had any intention of rushing home. There are people here I still need to thank, and this means I might actually have time to do so.
Yet we dare not neglect our comrades in the Source.
Mistress Tataru, to name but one, will be most anxious to know how things stand with us.
So─you'll just have to make the journey alone for the moment. Be sure and give a full report to our fellow Scions, would you? Oh, and we'd also appreciate any news you can bring us from back home.
Then I see no reason to delay. I can open the path from here.
I imagine we each have matters demanding our attention, so let this be a farewell for us all.
Send word when you've resummoned our friend.
Oh, and do try to ensure she arrives within the city next time.
Hah! Of course! I shall strive for utmost accuracy! No strange forests or unplanned passengers, I promise.
I'm a little relieved, to be honest. I would have been terribly lonely if everyone had suddenly disappeared...
But I understand that you have to go. Safe journey, Warrior of Darkness. I hope to see you again soon!
Just a moment while I attune the portal, then you can be on your way.
When I was a boy, many long years ago...
...I yearned to stand tall as the heroes of eld.
But like a fool seeking to pluck the stars from the heavens, my every attempt to reprise their deeds fell short...
And then, one day, an all but forgotten dream from my youth stood before me, in the flesh.
A hero who looked to the horizon and beyond, and saw I knew not what.
All I knew was that I would give anything to stand at that hero's side.
Would that it were so easy...
The glory of the heavens was ever beyond the grasp of those who never thought to reach for it. But if I've gained anything from all of this, it is the courage to stretch out my hand.
Do you hear me, G'raha Tia? This is no time for sleeping!
Do you hear me, G'raha Tia? This is no time for sleeping!
Hmph.
To the west gate! I want to know what's happening there.
Same as the others─struck down with a single blow. An unfortunate day to draw guard duty.
Forgive me. These were your people.
We took advantage of this slaughter to slip into the palace. 'Tis not for me to grieve them.
Aaagh!
That was the Emperor!
Wha─ Wait!
Your Radiance!
Gaius! You've missed your part in this, I'm afraid.
Identify yourself, demon!
You were hoping for the Ascian?
The craven shed this skin and fled rather than face me. A pity─I was looking forward to crossing blades with myself.
But I cannot deny the feeling of satisfaction...
Body and soul, reunited at last!
What now? The game continues, but the pieces have changed.
Only if we trust in a paragon's words─a mistake I do not intend to repeat.
Gaius!
He speaks...the truth...
Elidibus is gone... Tore a hole into the rift...
Zenos... My foolish, greedy son...
Was a second life not enough? Was the Empire too rich a prize to ignore?
True freedom for our nation─our people─will never be won by a spoiled princeling! The burden of this throne is beyond you.
Hmph. 'Tis you, Father, who have struggled with this burden. Simply holding the Empire together has occupied your limited faculties.
But you may take comfort in knowing that I have no intention of pursuing your tedious agenda, nor am I interested in ruling over the Empire's lands.
I came only to remove that which ruins my sport. I will not have my prey stolen by your petty wars and cowardly weapons.
You would kill me just for that...?
I need no other reason. Any and all who interfere with my hunt...
...will not do so twice!
I heard the Ascian speak of Zodiark and Hydaelyn. Even the will of this star is but a construct of our own making...
We shall gorge upon their strength, and then, my friend, our contest shall begin anew.
Zenos!
But─ But─ But─!
Forename!? Is it really you!?
B-B-But how? When!? We didn't think you'd be back for ages!
Right! So it does! The reports you had delivered by that excitable little pixie said as much!
Oh, don't be daft! I just can't believe you're actually back!
We heard the good news from your pixie friend, but nothing compares to seeing you in the flesh!
As for the situation on this side, the imperials are still eyeing our forces from afar.
From what I'm told, the Garlean armies have been slow to react, and seem reluctant to commit to any large-scale engagements. It's an odd sort of stalemate.
Otherwise, we've yet to see any sign of that awful “Black Rose” weapon we were warned about...
Oh! But I suppose we did call in an old friend to help out on that count.
Hee hee! Krile and I had a terrible time tracking him down, though it will be worth it to see the look on your face when you find out who it is!
Anyway, I was just about to make contact with this helper of ours, and then confirm the latest news from the front. Might you fancy having a rest while I do?
Ah, the Warrior of Light, back where she belongs, just as if nothing had happened! ...Though you do seem different somehow. You'll have to tell me all about your adventures when we next have a spare moment!
Until then, welcome back!
Oblivion has claimed him...
Emet-Selch...gone. Lahabrea...gone. I alone remain─the last of the unbroken.
Once more, I am moved to reevaluate the potential of these tattered souls.
Ah, Zenos. Never did I dream you could overpower me so completely, possessed as I was of your body, and all its uncanny strength...
And now that I have shared with you the truth of this world and its reflections, who can predict how events will unfold? ...Not I.
“Emissary”... What a poor jest that title has become. The flow of history has become muddied, its currents wild beyond my capacity to direct them.
You have wrested the advantage, Hydaelyn. The thieving hands of Your disciples tighten their grip on our star.
The origins of the world remain hidden and its inhabitants ignorant of their broken existence, just as You and Your creators desired.
They celebrate the gift of imperfect life─uncaring, unknowing as we weaken and fade.
But do not imagine Yourself rid of us.
Though Your champion has indeed proven the most egregious obstacle to our ascendance─a barbed thorn in my side─she may yet be removed and cast into the abyss.
Oh yes...it can be done. I will keep these “heroes” mired in the First, and victory will be ours at the last.
Warriors of Darkness now, are they? Then their fate is decided.
They shall meet the same end as those who came before─death at the hands of Warriors of Light!
It seems you were right.
Yes, there is something out there...
But it would mean crossing malms and malms of this infernal emptiness. Which is rather unhealthy for living creatures, as I understand it.
Even were we to restrict ourselves to brief forays, I don't like to imagine the effect it would have on our aether...
But...you still want to go. Don't you.
We may have saved the world, but we haven't reclaimed it.
Ah, when you put it that way...
...What choice do we have?
Well, of course I'm going with you─that's what family is for, isn't it?
Come. Let's head back and prepare for this mad journey of yours.
Thank you, Thancred...
Thank you, Thancred...
Forename! Gods, it's good to see you. I hope your being here means you've had your fill of rest?
Well, you've certainly earned it.
You're too selfless, that's your problem. But you'll be no good to anyone if you don't take a break every once in a while. Anyway...
Not much has happened since your last visit. I had planned for you to meet that helper I told you about, but he refuses to answer his linkpearl. I do hope he's all right.
We've been exchanging messages with the Eorzean Alliance throughout, though. They say the fighting has finally stopped at the Ghimlyt Dark, and that the Empire's shown no sign of movement.
Which means we might actually have a moment to ourselves for a change. Seeing as you're back, maybe you could tell me more about your time in the First?
Great! Oh, and if you don't mind, I'd like to ask F'lhaminn to join us. She'll want to know what happened to Minfilia, and I think it's best she hears it from you.
We'll meet you on the terrace at the House of Splendors.
Forename. My, it has been too long. Tataru did mention that I would be joining you, did she not?
Thank you... Words cannot well express how I have longed to know more of the First. This world Minfilia has sacrificed so much to save.
But come, rest your feet. Tataru should be arriving shortly.
And so Minfilia chose to pass on her gifts to the next Oracle? This girl who Thancred named Ryne?
To have such a burden thrust upon her as a child...only to embrace it when given the choice...
In that respect, they are quite alike. It would seem her legacy is indeed in capable hands.
Forename─might I ask a favor of you when next you return to the First? To tell Ryne what I cannot.
To tell her...thank you.
And I would offer thanks to you as well. For staying with her to the end.
Beggin' yer pardon, but could I have a word?
Riol! I hope you're here to tell me you've received word from our helper.
I wish. Nay, I've not had a peep out of him. An' it's been a good long while now. Too bloody long.
On account o' which, I'm goin' to sneak over the border an' see if I can't get a signal to him from closer up.
But what if they catch you!? There must be another way.
Well, it ain't as if we can ask Thancred to do it. Besides, I shouldn't have no trouble pickin' me way through Ghimlyt now the fightin's died down. Gods know there's enough shadows to hide in.
An' it beats waitin' 'round here twiddlin' me thumbs. Anyroad, I just thought I'd let ye know. Now, I'd best be─
Ack! I nearly forgot! Krile's at the Stones, an' she wants a word.
Somethin' to do with the patients. She was gettin' ready to examine 'em again when I left.
We'd best head back, then. I'm sure it's important.
It seems she's still examining them. Oh, I do hope it's nothing bad...
You're here. Good.
So...how are they?
Still locked in slumber. But otherwise in good physical health.
...For the present, at least.
For the present?
...Oh no, is something wrong with them!?
I'm afraid there may be.
I summoned you after detecting faint signs of instability in Thancred's corporeal aether. But subsequent examinations suggested all five might be affected. And when I examined them just now, my fears were confirmed.
Tellingly, the degree of instability varies between them.
Thancred exhibits the most notable signs, followed by Y'shtola and Urianger. The twins' aether, meanwhile, remains relatively stable, but there is a change there too if one knows to look for it.
Hold on─isn't that the order they were called away in?
Indeed. Which leads me to believe the instability will only increase with time.
Though I can but speculate, I fear this may be a symptom of a weakening link between body and soul.
By the gods... What happens if the link is broken?
I cannot say for certain─this is all unknown territory to us. Yet whatever happens, it cannot be good.
Mercifully, the instability is still only slight. And you may rest assured Master Matoya and I will do everything in our power to keep it from worsening.
Be that as it may, it is imperative that you find a way to restore our friends' souls to their bodies.
Thank you.
I realize you've only just returned from saving two worlds, but time is not on our side.
But where's she even supposed to start? We had the greatest minds in the realm hunting high and low for an answer, and they ran out of places to look.
You stated in your report that the Exarch had originally intended to reverse the summoning process by means of his own death, correct?
Raha always was a reckless young fool... Ready to die for the first righteous cause that came along.
His plan might well have worked, but I for one am glad he never had the opportunity to see it through. Even if it does mean our friends must remain stranded awhile longer.
There is another way, I am sure of it. And the key lies with him. With the Exarch.
Pray return to the First and apprise him and the others of the situation.
We, meanwhile, will do what we can from here and, if the fates are kind, we will have good news to share upon your return.
Ah, Forename, you are returned. I hope your time in the Source was suitably restful?
...But of course it wasn't. Go on...
Their corporeal aether shows signs of instability? By the gods... The possibility never even occurred to me...
If you have returned in the hope that my research has yielded a solution, I fear you will be sorely disappointed.
'Tis but a mercy we have the likes of Mistress Krile and Master Matoya to keep our friends' bodies safe while we wrestle with the problem.
But they cannot forestall the separation of body and soul indefinitely. Come, the others must be told.
Pray excuse my late arrival.
Will Thancred and Ryne not be joining us?
Nay, milady. With apologies to all, they beg leave to pursue their investigation of the Empty to its conclusion. Should matters here demand their presence, however, they did assure me that they would make themselves available.
Yes, of course. Then let us proceed.
I...I think it best that you begin by providing a summary of Mistress Krile's findings.
I suppose it was only to be expected that some change would occur...
Yet our souls seem unaffected. To my eye, at least.
How long they will remain so is another question. Krile is right. It is imperative we find a way to return to the Source.
Perhaps an explanation of the method by which I brought you here will yield some inspiration.
Ere I begin, it must be noted that I am by no means a gifted mage. In order to employ powerful magicks, I must rely upon the Crystal Tower and its boundless reservoirs of energy.
The magick that summoned you was no exception. 'Tis a singular spell, adapted through painstaking effort from the technique that transported me to the First.
To use an analogy, it works by cutting a hole in the fabric of reality. A hole tailored to the object of summoning, through which it─and it alone─may pass unscathed.
Though I succeeded in creating said hole, I failed to latch onto my intended target. Instead of you, the spell found those close to you, and ended up summoning them in their incomplete state...
I would not soon throw my life away─not after the lengths you and yours went to save it.
And so long as I breathe, I will spare no effort to see you safely home.
But should all else fail, and your lives be at stake, there remains one sure method...
Ow!
What was that for!?
How can you even entertain such thoughts!? You owe your life to the Warrior of Light, and you don't get to die unless she says so.
Your followers await your divine judgment.
What did you j—
Wha—
If the two of you have finished, perhaps we could return to our discussion?
Rather than dwelling upon the multiple failed attempts at transference, I think it would behoove us to focus on the solitary success.
I would draw your attention to the fact that our friend can travel between worlds possessed not only of her body and soul, but her personal effects besides.
This is no different from the teleportation magicks to which we are all accustomed─magicks that allow for the transportation of those inanimate objects one considers to be an extension of oneself.
Are you suggesting that, simply by considering us her possessions, she could carry our souls back to the Source upon her person?
Well, it would be nice if things were that simple for a change.
But vague notions of ownership seem a rather tenuous thing to stake our lives on. So much as a moment of doubt on her part, and we'd be left floating in the rift.
Milady hath the right of it. The requisite fixity of belief would be too much to ask even of our friend.
Yet were we to immure our souls within an object in her possession, mayhap then our safe passage could be assured.
White auracite would, I believe, serve as a suitable vessel for this purpose. 'Twas conceived to imprison the massy soul of an Ascian, and should house one of ours with relative ease.
We would need only to ensure our souls' safe preservation inside the stone, and identify a means by which they might be transferred back unto our vacant bodies.
Soul preservation and transference... Hm. I believe I know of someone who may be able to assist us.
On the far shore of the Source, there stands a great palace built by the elves.
It was forsaken in the wake of the Flood, but a certain Nu Mou chose to make their home there soon after.
Though they have long lived as a recluse, they once occupied a place of honor in Voeburt's royal court, and it is said that none in all of Norvrandt is more knowledgeable than they on matters of the soul.
Well, I've no objection to seeking a helping hand, but if they've gone to such lengths to hide themselves away from the world, what makes you think they'd be willing to lend us one?
Heh. A worthy question. Years ago, I myself tried─and failed─to solicit their cooperation in the battle against the sin eaters.
No sooner had I begun to make my plea than they unleashed a swarm of their familiars upon me.
Unlike me, however, you have curried favor with the fae folk. By that merit alone, I am hopeful that they would grant you an audience.
They may still be inclined to turn you away, of course, but if their knowledge might feasibly facilitate your return home, we have to try.
The Grand Cosmos─that is, the palace we seek─stands on the opposite shore of the Source. I will arrange for a boat to carry us there.
Whilst thou journeyest thither, I think it best that I devote mine energies to the creation of white auracite─by thy leave, of course. The process requireth no small amount of time, and should the Nu Mou consent to lend us their aid, we will have need of a suitable vessel ere long.
Agreed. Then I would ask the rest of you to meet me in Sullen. And...do be prepared for a warm reception.
As I told you before, I had scarcely set foot on the palace grounds when I was set upon by our host's familiars, and I expect our reception today to be no different. Which is why I propose we march through the main gate, weapons drawn.
I'm sorry, but are we not here to petition for assistance? You can't honestly think barging in looking for a fight is going to persuade them.
Actually, I believe the Exarch may have the right of it.
They have no doubt poured a great deal of time and energy into their creations. Were I them, I should be most interested to meet with those who could overcome my defenses.
As would any true seeker of knowledge. And there is little we can say or do to convince them to help us if we know nothing of their character, nor less why they chose to hide themself from the world.
But if we can seize their interest, mayhap we can earn ourselves an audience.
Weapons drawn it is, then.
Though I must say, Exarch, you certainly seem to be enjoying all of this.
Do I? Well, I will not deny that I enjoy the thought of fighting alongside you all rather than pacing about inside the Crystal Tower.
You both seem to be in rather high spirits, if you ask me. Not that I'm surprised. Your moods invariably improve when Forename is around.
Uh─ What exactly are you implying?
She averted a Calamity, and the Light which seemed destined to consume her has been extinguished. 'Tis only natural that we be pleased to see her.
Yes, well, you will have plenty of time to celebrate her good health after we've finished here.
O-Of course. Then let us proceed to the palace.
'Tis good to be here with you for a change. Whatever you would have me do, you need but say the word.
I think we've done enough talking, don't you? We have a Nu Mou to impress.
How long has it been since we last went on such an expedition? I cannot help but be reminded of the ruins of Skalla...
I can but imagine what manner of beasts keep guard here. No doubt they will afford us scant opportunity to explore the palace. A pity...
