<bleep> <bloop> Error. Error. Verification system...initialized. User registration...confirmed.
Greetings and welcome to Windspath Gardens, the sanctuary of exploration and discovery! The marvels of the natural world await you!
If I could have everyone's attention. I know we have pressing business, but I'd like to say a few words.
Before I died, I had two wishes. The first was to see who my Elene'shpya would become.
I would say that wish has been fulfilled.
Indeed it has, for the boy who once shunned company has returned a somewhat sociable man, surrounded by wonderful friends.
As his mother and mentor both, I couldn't be more proud.
As for my second wish... That was to see all manner of nature that I had never seen before.
I hoped to explore every corner of the world, and there find thriving life!
...But I didn't even get to see all of Tural, did I? Never enough hours in a day, or days in a year. Or years in a life.
Cahciua...
Oh, don't give me that look! Though admittedly I did go and spoil the mood. Apologies.
What I was so poorly trying to work up to asking was this: I want you to help me fulfill my second wish.
I have a good feeling about this place. There is so much here I've never seen before, I just know it!
We'd love to see it with you.
I thought you might say that! Thank you.
Windspath Gardens is home to a collection of flora and fauna that once thrived on the continent.
Like the rest of Living Memory, I haven't explored it in earnest. Controlling my vessel demanded all of my attention.
But at long last, I'll get to meet the creatures here. Wrap things up with a perfect little adventure. So, shall we?
Absolutely not.
We're to grant you your wish─and then what? You'll leave?
You cannot ask that of me.
Oh, Elene'shpya...
Please understand. I just want it to end on a happy note. Not only for myself, but for all of us.
Better that than a sad good-bye, surely?
The sanctuary of exploration and discovery... Quite fitting that Cahciua's memories are here.
How very like Cahciua to chase her dreams to the last.
Let's help Cahciua make some great memories!
...
Then with your consent, let's begin our adventure!
Naturally, while we go about this, feel free to continue befriending Endless. And be sure to absorb the delightful scenery!
What a lovely garden!
The scenery here is nothing short of remarkable. To think that Sphene has managed to preserve it for the Endless...
I thought those things were some sort of enormous tree, but they're actually sculptures!
...I somehow anticipated this.
This particular garden is called Blooms of Discovery. Beautiful, isn't it?
It's absolutely stunning! And they are all actual plants?
They are indeed. These specimens were brought here hundreds of years ago for conservation, as the calamity had pushed them to the brink of extinction.
So this zone is like a great conservatory.
Precisely, my dear Krile! Here you'll find flora and fauna the likes of which no longer exist elsewhere.
Doesn't the thought just set your heart aflutter?
I suppose.
I expect that some creatures I encountered outside of Tural may have cousins in this world.
While I am no expert on life in the reflections, it would make for an interesting study to compare them.
Now there's an idea! Leave it to my pupil to think up such.
Here we have not only a worlds-traversing adventurer and a veteran gleaner, but a pair of Sharlayan's finest scholars besides.
It's a veritable gathering of inquisitiveness, and I'm thrilled to be part of it!
<giggle> Cahciua looks awfully happy, doesn't she?
I can't recall the last time my mother was so excited...
When it comes to inquisitiveness, I reckon I'm a match for both you and Erenville!
Some creatures here do indeed appear to resemble those in Eorzea. Such was the case in the First, too...
To begin with, I'd like you to scout out the vicinity and report back with any points of note.
This would be a good opportunity to speak with the locals. They're bound to be familiar with the area, after all.
As Elene'shpya suggested, it would be interesting to compare the creatures here with those native to the Source.
I never ventured outside of Tural, so I look forward to your insights!
Just leave it to us! I've only ever been to Sharlayan myself, but I'd like to think I know interesting when I see it!
Of everyone, I daresay you've been to the most places. I cannot wait to hear your thoughts!
