Look at what just arrived─another godsdamned adventurer...
Don't you start with that. Adventurers are the very salve that Gridania needs.
The Elder Seedseer herself bade us welcome them with open arms. Do you mean to disregard her will?
Of course not! Lest you forget, it is my sworn duty to uphold the peace! Am I to blame if outsiders bring mistrust upon themselves?
You─adventurer! Mind that you do not cause any trouble here, or I shall personally cast you out of this realm and into the seventh hell.
Ahem. Pay that outburst no mind. He meant only to...counsel you. Suspicious characters have been prowling the Twelveswood of late, you see, and the Wood Wailers feel they cannot afford to take any chances.
As is often the way with folk who live in isolation, Gridanians are wont to mistrust things they do not well know, your good self included. Fear not, however─given a catalog of exemplary deeds, and no more than a handful of years, the locals will surely warm to you.
On behalf of my fellow citizens, I welcome you to Gridania. May you come to consider our nation as your own in time.
Now then, you may depend on old Mother Miounne to teach you a few things that every adventurer should know.
Let us begin at the beginning, shall we? Now that you are a formal member of the Adventurers' Guild, we must be sure you have a firm grasp of the fundamentals of adventuring. To that end, I have three tasks I wish you to perform.
Your first task is to visit the aetheryte. This massive crystal stands in the middle of the aetheryte plaza, not far from the Carline Canopy.
As a device that enables instantaneous transportation, the aetheryte plays a key role in the life of the ever-wandering adventurer.
Once you have located the crystal, all you need do is touch its surface. A member of the Wood Wailers will be present to offer further instruction.
For your second task, you are to visit the Archers' Guild.
There is no better place to learn the arts of the bow. Speak with Athelyna, and she will explain the benefits of joining the guild.
For your third and final task, I would have you visit the markets at the heart of Old Gridania's commercial district. There you shall find weapons and armor, and all the various items that an adventurer might need on her travels.
There is, however, more to the markets than buying and selling goods. Speak with Parsemontret, and listen well to his counsel.
The master merchant can be...uncooperative at times, so be sure to offer him one of my famous eel pies. Like so many men, he is much more charitable when his stomach is full. Here, I made a batch not long ago.
You have your tasks, Forename. May Nophica guide your path.
Ah, and one more thing: should you happen to come across any citizens in need, don't be afraid to proffer a helping hand. I am certain they will be pleased to meet an adventurer in whom they can confide their woes.
Granted, the work they offer is unlikely to be of realm-shattering importance─but prove your worth and build a reputation, and in time folk will be more inclined to entrust you with matters of moment.
I also suggest that you lend an ear to the Smith here in the Canopy. The Smiths are trusted representatives of the Adventurers' Guild, and are an invaluable source of advice for neophyte heroes seeking to attain greatness.
