...Thanks, friend. Bloody tourniquet came loose and I was having trouble getting it back on. I should be fine the rest of the way.
Oh, oh, bless you, kind─ Wait, is that you, Forename?
I didn't recognize you at first. Been feeling a bit dizzy. Must've lost a lot of blood. I...I can keep going. I can keep going...
Forename. We have given over Commander Kemp's remains for safekeeping. Later─I have no idea when─rites must needs be performed...
For now, however, we must carry on. We must press forward. We must not give in to despair...
All Alliance and Resistance units have now withdrawn from Specula Imperatoris. It is time we spoke with General Aldynn.
...These deaths weigh heavy on my soul. Commander Kemp's most of all.
He was a wise leader. He was a patriot. But above all else, he was a good man who will be sorely missed. One of many lost this day. I ask for a moment's silence to pray for the souls of the departed.
We have suffered a grievous defeat. But we can not and will not renounce this cause. The die has been cast.
Hold tight to this grief, this anger, and let it drive you forward. Let it be your strength and your shield when next you face the enemy.
It will carry us far, General. Of that I have no doubt.
Ere we take another step towards Ala Mhigo, however, we must first address the question of how to deal with Castrum Abania's cannon. If the imperials are willing to employ the weapon without thought for their own soldiers' safety, we may struggle to approach them.
A frontal assault is out of the question. We'd lose countless men before we even reached the walls.
Would we? Recall that the imperials could have obliterated our forces had they kept firing, but neglected to do so.
They had no strategic reason to cease fire, which begs the question: why did they?
...You suspect they were unable to fire the cannon again. Mayhap due to a malfunction?
Or one of their officers found his conscience after the first barrage. Or a heretofore unknown Resistance faction chose that moment to disable it.
There are many possibilities, but the fact remains that they stopped when logic dictated they continue.
Then I'll just have to go and see for myself if the cannon is still operational.
Are you mad? Conrad put you in charge of the Resistance! We can't risk losing another commander so soon!
I know how you feel, Naago, I do. But I need you to understand...
It wasn't long after Papalymo and I arrived at Rhalgr's Reach that Conrad first asked me to join the Resistance. And then he kept on asking.
Every time I said no, I told myself it was because of the Scions. But even then, I knew deep down that it was an excuse. That I was still afraid of following my heart, because I couldn't be sure if it was for me or for Yda.
But then I met someone, on the other side of the world, who had struggled with the same worries. And as we traveled and fought together I saw him grow and become the leader his people needed him to be.
And now it's my turn to do the same.
There's not a lot of us left, and of the ones that are, many are still wounded. We have to make do with what we've got, and I'm the best qualified. It's as simple as that. But don't worry, Naago. I'll come back. I promise.
While I acknowledge Commander Hext's right to carry out this mission, I see no reason why she should do so alone. Forename, would you go with her?
Then it is settled. We will await your return.
...Sorry to drag you into this, Forename.
It may not be the decision Conrad would've made...but I'm not Conrad. I never will be. I don't know what kind of leader he was hoping for, but right now, all I can do is be myself...
If you don't mind, I'd rather not wait around and have people try to talk me out of it. Let's get moving. I know a good vantage point overlooking the castrum.
Nyunkrepf's Hope─the ship stranded on the rocks to the east of here. It shouldn't take us long to get there. Oh, but there might be some ancient golems guarding it. Or that might just be an old wives' tale. Either way, it's worth the risk.
Lyse...Commander...I pray you proceed with all due caution. Do not hesitate to call upon us if needed.
To reach the ship, we'll have to scale the cliff face. I'll get some climbing gear and meet you there, all right?
Sorry to keep you waiting! I see you've met the golems. Looks like the old stories were true, eh? In a way, I'm glad...
Right, then. Time to climb!
<pant> <pant> Whew! That took a bit more out of me than I expected...
And here she is. Nyunkrepf's Hope. The ark that one man made to save countless others from the flood during the Sixth Umbral Era.
It's comforting to think that there have always been people who cared this much about their fellow man─who accomplished such great feats that people couldn't help thinking they must be made up. But the proof's right here, isn't it?
I don't just mean the ship, you know. I mean you. Long before anyone started calling you a hero, you were there for those in need. You did things for people when you didn't have to─sometimes even when they didn't want you to.
It can't have been easy, staying true to yourself. But we're all better for it. Me included.
I'll never be a leader like Conrad. Or Hien. Or my father...
But I can be a friend to you all, and I can fight by your side.
I can be me...and that'll just have to be enough, eh?
Strange to think back on it. If we'd been standing in different places, or if the shell had struck the tower differently, it would've been me instead of Conrad. Or maybe both of us.
What kind of monster murders their own...
Uh... Is that smoke from Castrum Abania? Wait─it's coming from the cannon!
I can't tell what happened from here, but I can tell that it won't be giving us any trouble in the immediate future.
This is our chance, Forename─to avenge Conrad and all the others who died in the tower, friend and foe.
To take Castrum Abania and bring the bastards who gave the order to fire to justice!
It won't be easy after the losses we took, but I know everyone's champing at the bit to strike back. With the right plan, I'm certain we can do it!
We have to tell the others! Come on!
Easier down than up, eh? Though not necessarily safer...
Anyway, no time to rest! We need to convince the others to strike now, before the imperials have time to fix their cannon.
There's no time to lose, Forename! General Aldynn needs to know what we saw!
You are returned. I only hope you bring good news.
We scaled the cliffs of Nyunkrepf's Hope and spied smoke rising from Castrum Abania's main cannon.
I think Marshal Tarupin's right─they didn't fire again because they couldn't. The cannon seems to have been disabled somehow.
Then we must attack Castrum Abania at once!
Hm. It could still be a trick. But if it isn't, we may not get a better opportunity.
Bluntly, General, if it is a trick, it is an utterly baffling stratagem. Had the imperials wished to wipe us out, they could simply have kept firing.
Be that as it may, we need not risk everything to seize it. I say we dispatch a small contingent to infiltrate the castrum and secure control of the weapon.
If the enemy is preoccupied with repairs, we may be able to take them unawares. If, on the other hand, it is indeed a trick, our token force will prove an elusive target─and we will at least know the cannon is operational.
Either way, it seems well worth the risk. But how are we to infiltrate the castrum?
...In anticipation of a day such as this, men and women under my command have labored long to cultivate a network of informants throughout Gyr Abania─including Radiata.
Radiata is home to many who hold menial positions at Castrum Abania and other nearby installations. With the aid of our allies there, I believe we can secure a route into the fortress.
The Resistance will handle this. You may have recruited these informants, but they'll be just as happy working with fellow Ala Mhigans. And at the end of the day, it's our land─our responsibility. Let us do right by Conrad.
I should be glad to accompany her, General─as would Alisaie and Forename, I am sure.
Well then. If you are all in agreement, I see no reason to refuse you.
We will make ready to march on Castrum Abania. Go, and may Rhalgr watch over and keep you.
My apologies for speaking on your behalf. It would seem my sister's forthright manner is rubbing off on me... I confess, my decision to volunteer was not wholly motived by concern for Lyse, nor less Ala Mhigo.
...Castrum Abania is the largest imperial facility in the Peaks, you see, and so the likelihood that Krile is being held captive there is quite high...
Dealing with that cannon remains our main objective, of course, but if there is even a chance that Krile might be rescued in the process, I would never forgive myself if I did not take it.
So, to review: we are to travel to Radiata, where we will meet with a contact recruited by Marshal Tarupin's agents.
I took the liberty of reviewing intelligence reports while Forename and Lyse were away, so the settlement is not wholly unfamiliar to me...
As the vice marshal indicated, the vast majority of the populace is employed as menial labor in either Specula Imperatoris or Castrum Abania. Perhaps as a result of this, the Resistance has long struggled to make inroads there.
Aye, you have the right of it. They got a better deal than most Ala Mhigans─feeding off what scraps the imperials gave 'em. Damned if I know how Marshal Tarupin's agents got one of them to turn his coat.
I understand your disdain, I do. But I also understand their desire to look after their families by any means necessary...
Our contact is a Roegadyn woman. She will ask us a question. After we answer with “courage,” she will know us as friends.
“Courage.” Right.Put together a squadron, Naago. We'll need them soon.
With me, my friends─and be ready for anything.
See? What did I tell you? Let us continue on to Specula Imperatoris!
Of course there were still soldiers lurking about... Fortunately, they were no match for Lyse. Come─Radiata is not much further.
Of course, in light of our recent encounter, it would be prudent to proceed with caution and remain vigilant for imperial forces...
Looks like it's safe to enter. I don't see any imperials...
Hmm... I don't see smoke above Castrum Abania anymore. Do you think they fixed the cannon already...?
Alphinaud said we were looking for a Roegadyn woman, right? And that we should answer her question with “courage”?
I suppose we'll just have to strike up a conversation with every one of them until we find our contact. Let me know if you find her, and I'll do the same.
