Peace, boy. Peace. She came to help, and for that we should be grateful.
Elder, your face...
We all have scars. Some too many to bear.
Too many battles, too much lost. Our friends, our family, even our liege.We who survived are forced to bend the knee─to sell our souls andsurrender our dignity.
How are we to lift our heads when this shame weighs so heavily upon us? Your courage, your resolve... They are as salt in our wounds.
If they only knew what you would do for them, my lord...
You have made your plight clear, and I shall impose my will no more.But know this, brothers and sisters of Doma.
For all you have suffered─for all the horror and the ignominy─you are still here. You are still alive.
My lord─ My lord prays you value your life as highly as he does. As for me...I swear by all the kami in creation that I will free you from this torment.No matter the cost.
...If the imperials come for me, I will tell them we were tricked by an Auri woman.
Tell them whatever you must to keep your loved ones safe.
Why would you...? After everything...
...
Apologies, Forename. I was...lost in thought.
Mayhap they have the right of it. Mayhap we are fools for urging them to rise once more. Yet I believe─I have to believe─that in their heart of hearts, they...they still...
...Now is not the time. We must finish what we started.
I have in my possession a powerful medicine that befuddles the mind and memories. We must administer it to the soldiers ere they wake.
The medicine will leave the soldiers confused and unable to clearly recall recent events. They will suspect that they fell asleep at their posts and be reluctant to discuss it with others.
It is naught more than a temporary measure, but we dare not kill them for the sake of the villagers. Tend to the last two I put to sleep─I shall see to the others.
<snore> ...Mother, is that you...?
I...I want to go home... <snore>
Forgive me for making you search.
It calms me, the sound.It helps me to remember the sway of the ocean when I close my eyes...
Despite the many great and noble things I said, in truth I am not of Doma.I was born beneath the waves of the Ruby Sea...
To think that you were there─that you even spoke with my mother and father...
They are in good health, then. The knowledge is...of great comfort to me.
That I might have the strength to protect my home from the Empire, I left to learn the secrets of the shinobi. Day and night we trained, ever striving to exceed our mental and physical limits.
After a time, my skills were recognized, and I was dispatched to assist the Doman Liberation Front. It was then that I met Lord Kaien and his son, and their loyal samurai, Gosetsu.
Good men, all. Brave and true, so clear their eyes, so pure their purpose. Any shinobi would have been proud to serve them and Doma.
...But, in the end, I will always be of the sea.
Every day, I pray for my home, and for the people I left behind.That they might be spared the wages of war, and live in peace, untouched by this madness.
I confessed this to Lord Hien once. Do you know what he said to me?
He said: “Good. We are better for the conviction of our allies, and draw inspiration from their example. What is weak alone may together grow stronger.”
Never did I lose faith in them. Even when all was lost, and I led our people to Eorzea, I clung to the belief that our dream would one day be realized.
But when I gazed into those eyes bereft of hope─when those broken men balked at liberty, the dream was shattered.
That you remain resolute, even in the face of everything we have seen... It heartens me more than you know. Thank you for standing by this naive fool.
So I pray... And thus do I labor to see a new day dawn, regardless of my misgivings. When all is said and done, we can but carry on—together.
Forgive me! We shinobi are taught to discharge our duties without hesitation or doubt. Come what may, I shall not falter.
An imperial airship...
It is bound for Doma Castle. Quickly, we must rejoin the others!
Come, come! We must tell the others of this airship, or hear what they know of it!
There you are! What happened? Are the villagers all right?
W-We freed them, along with many others.
Gosetsu─we spied an airship bound for the castle. Know you aught of it?
Aye, that we do... The crown prince is come to Doma.
We suspect this is the result of recent events in Gyr Abania. Our defeat notwithstanding, there appears to be some concern in Garlemald that subversive elements may be rallying in other provinces.
Though Yotsuyu governs Doma, Zenos remains the province's anointed viceroy─and it would seem he has come to assess the current situationin person.
If Zenos is here, we must seize this opportunity and kill him.
Would that it were so simple, Lady Yugiri. You may recall that we encountered Zenos at Rhalgr's Reach. We have seen firsthand what he can do. His power defies explanation.
He faced the Alliance, the Resistance and the Scions, and he defeated us all.
We survived and learned from the experience, it is true─but if we are to defeat him, it will not be through simple opportunism. We will require a flawless plan.
We know his strengths. A prodigious swordsman trained from childhood by the finest imperial tutors, reputed to be without equal on the battlefield. Which is why we must not meet him there.
Nay, we keep to the shadows─the domain of the shinobi. And thence we strike. You need only give me the chance.
Were this but a matter of personal revenge, I would not presume to bar your path, for I myself crave that same vengeance.
But to draw steel against the Emperor's son is a grave decision, and one that will shape our nation's future. Do not forget Lord Hien's words!
What, that we should sheathe our swords if the people lack the will to fight!? I will not squander this opportunity! If we do naught, our master's life is forfeit!
Even should you succeed, Zenos's death will not win Doma her freedom─more likely her doom.
Can we defend our people against the Empire's retribution? We few against a legion? Do not be a fool, child!
...Mayhap I am a fool with foolish dreams of a future that will never be.But I cannot─I will not forsake them!
Yugiri, wait!
...What now?
I will not pursue her. It is for her to think on our master's words and recognize the futility of her course.
Those, at least, are my thoughts upon the matter. Yours may be different. Should you wish to give chase, I will not bar your path.
...We each have but one life, and it is not to be spent recklessly in pursuit of our goals. I pray she realizes this soon...
...Did Gosetsu send you to stop me?
Then you came of your own free will? I should be surprised if you agreed with my chosen course. No one else did.
But it is not as fanciful as they would have you believe. Scant moments ago, I received the crown prince's itinerary from one of our spies in the castle.
'Twould seem that Zenos has no desire to remain in Doma any longer than necessary. He wishes to inspect the Moon Gates this very eve.
His impatience is to our advantage. He arrived without warning and gave Yotsuyu no time to prepare. The whole castle is in state of upheaval.
To avoid any delay, he has declined a full escort, and will be traveling with no more than a handful of soldiers. The kami could not have blessed us with more auspicious circumstances. I will kill him, Forename. I will.
...Or die trying. You understand the risks.
Forgive me. Of course you do. Mayhap better than I.
...But are you sure?
I know the odds. I know what he is capable of, and that in an open confrontation, I will likely die.
But if I do not─if I succeed, then countless lives will be saved. Doma, Ala Mhigo─everything will change! One life for that world is a price I would pay a thousand times over!
...What? What is it? Why are you looking at me like that?
...Do you mean to join me?
Thank you. Thank you. I...I cannot well express what this means to me.
We have much to discuss, but we can do so on the way.
Yuzuka Manor is some distance from here. We must hurry!
...Stay calm. No one knows you were here. No one knows you saw anything.
No one knows you overheard two rebels plotting...to kill the crown prince...
Gah! Stupid, stupid, stupid! You know how this ends! And they only have themselves to blame! You have to tell them. You have to...
This is far enough. Let us discuss our plan of attack...
Zenos's itinerary is as follows...
He will depart Doma Castle by ship and approach the Moon Gates. The magitek field will be deactivated briefly, allowing his vessel to pass. It will then continue on to these very docks, where he and his entourage will disembark.
As you can see, this area is not ideal for an ambush. Wide open, multiple avenues of escape. The manor is better suited to our needs.
Let us split up and search for suitable hiding places.
Let us split up and search for suitable hiding places.
Ah, there you are.
Hmm... From the roof, we would have a clear view of the docks...
It is settled. We shall lie in wait here until Zenos arrives.
As discussed, if all goes to plan, he shall fall with my first blow. If not, then the two of us will have to engage him in open combat.
His escort is of no consequence, which means that we will have a two-to-one advantage. Nevertheless, he is not to be underestimated...
All that remains is to wait. I trust that you are ready?
He comes.
The village is not far, my lord.If it please you, we shall escort you there directly.
Hmph. Less a province than a graveyard. The rotting husk of a broken nation, devoid of proper sport.  But as His Radiance wishes...
Y-Yes, of course, my lord! A-And may I say how terribly sorry we are that you had to come so far!
We labored long to sow the seeds of hatred, of fear─to train them as beasts. Now we shall see the harvest.
Let there be savage beasts baying for blood, and not hollow-eyed prey cowering in the dark, or there will be no joy in this hunt.
AMBUUUSH!
Shinobi!? And me without my brute...
How weak you are. Is this the sum of your hate?
This is only the beginning! For Lord Kaien! For Doma!
Mayhap I shall test this new blade of yours. Let us hope it is to my liking,lest your misfortunes compound.
Then again, I am loath to expend such effort on the unworthy.Come─earn the honor.
Zenos yae Galvus! You will die by my hand!
First you must kill my men. You can do that, can you not?
What are you doing, you fools!? There are only two of them!
Hm. How much longer must you make me wait?
Very well. I suppose you have earned this...
This is not a game, you twisted, arrogant bastard!
Graaagh!
Well done, beast. You have earned the right to look on the Ame-no-Habakiri.
What...what is this...? Kami forfend...
No! I can still fight, I can still...still...
You're better than most, I'll grant you that. But not good enough. This ends now.
Ahhh...I remember you. Ala Mhigo. The champion of the savages.
“Look ye where the sun doth rise, see crimson embers, dark'ning skies...
“Look ye where the sun doth fall, see azure lost amidst the squall.”
Oh...how right I was to spare your life.
Hear me, hero. Endure. Survive. Live.
For the rush of blood, for the time between the seconds─live.For the sole pleasure left to me in this empty, ephemeral world─live!
Hraaagh!
You are not worthy.
Get away from them, you imperial dog!
No, don't... You must...you must flee!
We're not going anywhere! Do you hear me!? We're not running away!
What you're doing is stupid and reckless and I never wanted any part of it,but here we are!
I've spent my whole life hating myself─for every time they made me beg,for every time I held my tongue to protect the people I love.
And then you came along and reminded me of all the things I never said and never did, and it was even worse! I would have given anything to forget, to walk away, but I knew that I'd never be able to live with the guilt.
So we came─all of us! For you, for ourselves─for Doma!
Death is death, regardless of the reason.
Yet you seem determined to die, intruding upon this sacred ground, turning weapons you can scarcely wield upon me. Your lives will not even begin to redress the balance.
How wrong you are!
Go, now! Gosetsu─see to Yugiri!
Aye!
<cough> <cough> I can't see a damn thing... Someone stop them!
My lord!?
I don't think we were followed...Gods... I have no idea what was going through that man's head, but I am heartily glad he decided to leave.
Oh, and don't thank us. Thank Alphinaud. He's at the House of the Fierce, patiently awaiting your gratitude.
You should've seen the way he turned pale when he heard about Yugiri's plan─and how you of all people had decided to help her. He was in such a panic, barking orders, calling for a squadron to be assembled─
As were you.
I was rather composed, as I recall. Though that is neither here nor there...
Can you believe it? We faced the crown prince himself and lived to tell the tale!
You've no idea what this means for us. Everyone's talking about getting more weapons and armor and...and...
And we're not going to stop until we've taken back our homeland!
Ah, right. Getting a bit ahead of ourselves, aren't we? We've got wounded to tend to first. We should get back to the village!
How are you feeling? After fighting that demon, I can only imagine...
...I suppose I ought to apologize to you. For...you know...
Anyway, uh... Thank you. For not giving up on us. The shinobi too.
