Well, well... It's you again...
And I see you've invited your friends. Need them to fight your battles for you, do you?
I didn't invite them, as it happens...though they are indeed my friends. Not only mine, but every true Eulmoran's.
They are the ones who awakened us to the truth─to Lord Vauthry's villainy. The famous Warriors of Darkness.
Are they now...
Yes. They are. It would be no exaggeration to call them our saviors. We owe much and more to their kindness. But we cannot depend on that kindness forever.
To do so would be little different from entrusting our affairs to Lord Vauthry. Nay, we must learn to stand on our own two feet, and I would have them present to witness my attempt.
Hear, hear, Master Chai!
Your sentiments are admirable. Yet admirable sentiments do not a nation make.
In my capacity as advisor, I once strove to build a better Eulmore. Gave honest counsel to my superiors. Drafted laws for the benefit of one and all...
But in time, my values fell out of favor. There was no need for them in this paradise Vauthry was creating. And so I left my homeland behind.
But you, Chai-Nuzz─you were content to wallow in indolence under Vauthry's auspices. And so I cannot help but ask myself what manner of nation you intend to build.
I...I can offer no simple answer to that question.
But this much I will say...
It is my hope that Eulmore can become a nation which her citizens might freely choose to build together.
A great many people─myself included─flocked to Eulmore seeking sanctuary. The alternative being to live in fear and die in pain, it seemed an easy choice.
And sanctuary we found. As much food and drink as we could ever want, secured at the cost of the surrounding villages. Little wonder the people gathered at our doorstep, begging to work among the bonded.
The free were blind to it all, of course. Content to─as you say─wallow in indolence. In ignorance...
Were I mayor, I would first take stock of the city's resources, and see that they were assigned equitably. Our days of reckless consumption are behind us.
The distinction between free and bonded died with Vauthry. The needs of rich and poor alike must be considered if our nation is to survive.
To which end, I would take steps to secure channels for supplies, rekindle relations with nearby settlements, reestablish industry, reach out to neighboring nations...and the list goes on and on.
But I am no ruler, nor even a politician─I am an entrepreneur.
My expertise lie in planning and profit. I haven't the knowledge or experience to run a nation.
Please, Wrenden. Will you not help me? Together, we could solve the city's problems. Build a Eulmore for the people.
A Eulmore for the people...
I rather like the sound of that.
But before I offer you my counsel, I would be certain of your ability to perform the duties of office.
You would?
You ask me to help you solve Eulmore's problems, but first, I would see you solve one on your own. Accomplish that, and you will prove both to me and the people that you are a man worth following.
Ahem! Right, then. Is there a particular issue you would have me resolve?
You seem to have conducted an assessment of the problems Eulmore now faces. I assume you will agree, therefore, that the matter of dwindling food stores is the most pressing.
Ah, yes... Meol being neither a desirable, nor less sustainable option, I assume alternative foodstuffs are now required to fill the void.
And a man who hungers is not like to contribute much to society...save violence, perhaps.
So tell me: how do you propose to solve this problem? Give me a satisfactory answer, and I will consider offering you my counsel.
Hmmm... A combination of measures would seem to be in order. One to address the immediate issue of supply, and another, that of production.
Go on...
For the present, Eulmore's coffers can be used to purchase food from our neighbors. This would afford us time to address the underlying problem that affects us all─the long-standing neglect of agriculture.
The villages that once served as sources of trade for foodstuffs must be repopulated, their means of production restored.
This assumes, of course, that we can rekindle relations with our neighbors, guarantee security and stability in the region, and most importantly, find people willing to leave the city and take up the rebuilding effort.
My, my... Think of that all by yourself, did you?
Well...yes. It began as a rather abstract plan I drafted some time ago, after speaking with the peoples of Eulmore and the nearby settlements.
Hmph....You've impressed me, Chai-Nuzz.
Uh─ I have? Well, that is a relief!
Oh, you haven't secured my support just yet. Only my attention. Grand plans will not be enough to persuade the masses. If you would ask them to rebuild, you must provide them the means to do so.
A fair point, Wrenden. And one to which I have given much thought. I propose the use of Talos to aid in the establishment and maintenance of these settlements. Their employment should drastically improve efficiency, and ultimately increase production.
Talos? But Daedalus Stoneworks closed their doors years ago. Without a ready supply of the necessary equipment, the people would starve before your plans could be put into effect.
Well, as the heir to Daedalus Stoneworks, it just so happens that Talos are my field of expertise.
And with a little help, I'm quite certain we can acquire what we need in no time at all.
Wrenden is quite right. Building Talos from scratch would require time we simply do not have.
Which is why I propose to make use of the long-abandoned Talos which wander the wilds of Kholusia.
They will need to be deactivated, of course, and if memory serves, the tools required to do so should still be at Top Rung. Come with me.
Aha! The old memory hasn't let me down!
This chest contains canisters filled with a dashedly potent insulating powder capable of halting the flow of aether in a Talos. We need only get within throwing distance of one and let fly.
...Thus disabling them without damaging them! Ingenious!
An old trick of the trade, nothing more. Once disabled, it should be a simple enough matter to get them to march to Eulmore. More extensive repairs can wait.
Ordinarily, this is where I would ask you to run along and do the deed, but as I have said before, it's high time we learned to stand on our own two feet.
Thankfully, throwing canisters is something even I should be able to manage.
Come off it, Master Chai!
Even if the Talos ain't a threat, there's a hundred and one other things out there waiting to make a meal of you!
That's as may be, Kai-Shirr, but Wrenden tasked me with solving this problem, and I will not sit idly by while others risk everything to see my harebrained schemes realized. Not this time!
...Which isn't to say the mere thought of it doesn't fill me with dread. Truth be told, I can't feel my legs.
But if I'm to prove I'm a man worth following, I must lead by example.
Well said, Master Chai!
Yes, well, it should go without saying that I have no intention of dying for this. I've always preferred living to see the fruits of my labors.
And to make sure I do, I will require your help. It is as Kai-Shirr says─these lands are dangerous if one is not careful. I would ask you to use my spyglass to look out for any beasts that could get in the way of my work. I will also need you to alert me when it is safe to subdue the Talos. Understood?
Good. Then let's be off to the Quick Way, through the north gate, and see if we can't find a suitable vantage point for you.
I must be careful.
Perhaps it'd be best to approach from the rear.
Oh! Its back is turned!
I pray this works...
Oh no! I've been spotted!
I...I did it? I did it! Let's move on to another Talos, shall we?
Curses. It's not alone.
Calm yourself, old boy. Everything will be fine.
An opening!
Please don't turn around!
Gah! It's seen me!
I do believe I'm getting the hang of this.
You may leave the next one to me, Forename.
Haha! That should do it! Now we have all we need to proceed.
I can scarcely believe it. It was a reckless, foolish plan. But somehow...it worked.
I...I did it.
Master Chai. I believe I owe you an apology.
Your plan to replenish Eulmore's food stores showed forethought and sound judgment. What's more, it is plain your time at Daedalus Stoneworks has equipped you to lead, as evidenced by the extraordinary company you keep.
You, sir, are more than qualified to be the next mayor of Eulmore.
I thank you for your vote of confidence, but the fact remains, I am wholly ignorant of the world of politics.
Which is why I would ask you to join me, and grant Eulmore the benefit of your counsel.
I would be honored.
When the people behold these Talos, I have no doubt they will lend you their support.
It would seem Eulmore's leadership is at last in capable hands, would you not agree?
We should probably be getting back soon, Master Chai. After you've tinkered with the Talos and all that. Lady Chai's worried sick.
Right. Right, then. Form a line and make for Eulmore!
