Sorry, sorry! It's just so different here─I can't help but want to explore!
Well, while you were exploring, your candidate came to us.
This is her. The adventurer you crossed the seas to meet.
Ooh... You weren't exaggerating. It's plain she's no ordinary woman.
I'm Wuk Lamat. Claimant to the throne of Tuliyollal.
Tuliyollal...
It's Tural's governing nation. The capital bears the same name.
I'll get to the point. I want you to come with me to my homeland.
Given the magnitude of the request, perhaps you should explain why you're making it.
Hahaha! Of course, of course!
Soon an event of great import will be held in Tural: the rite of succession.
Taking the form of a contest, it will determine who next ascends the throne.
As daughter to its present keeper, I will participate─and I have every intention of winning.
I was searching for champions to join me when Erenville told me about you.
A mighty warrior who knows no fear! Who sweeps aside terrible fiends as if they were reeds! Who flew to the edge of existence and saved our star!
She asked who Eorzea's greatest hero was, and so I told her. Much more elegantly, I might add.
Now you know why. You'll come to Tural, yes?
Wait! Let's all just...slow down.
Wuk Lamat, was it? You claim to be of the royal family, but is it not the Mamool Ja who rule in Tural?
Tuliyollal is a nation of many peoples. Not only the Mamool Ja as some across the seas are quick to assume.
That said, its present ruler is a Mamool Ja, and one blessed with two heads besides.
He's also my father. Not by blood, obviously, but he raised me as his own, and that's what matters.
So that is the way of it... My apologies if I was indelicate.
Hardly! I know little about your land, and nothing about your parentage.
Ah, but in my eagerness I've gotten ahead of myself. I can't expect you to agree on the spot when we've only just met.
If you have any questions, I'll do my best to answer them. Just know, though, that if it's adventure you seek, you could do far worse than come with me.
Now, this is only a rumor...
But apparently, the contest will involve the fabled city of gold and the legendary beast Valigarmanda.
Tell me that doesn't pique your interest.
We're going to get along, you and I!
Tural has no shortage of unexplored frontiers and deadly fiends. You'll never want for excitement, I promise you!
Well, the details of the contest have yet to be announced.
But the rumors come from someone involved in the preparations, so I'd say there's more than a grain of truth to them.
So the tales have reached even these shores! I can't help but feel proud!
I advise you not to put much store by these rumors. Golden cities are naught but a dreamer's fancy.
Says the dreamer who was bent on finding one when he was a child. Just because you failed doesn't mean it doesn't exist.
Tuliyollal and the golden city... Just like in the letter to Grandfather.
Regardless of what the contest may entail, it'll be no simple thing. If I'm to triumph, I'll need capable and dependable companions.
So let's go on a hunt together! There's no better way to get acquainted!
A journey to Tural...
That's the long and short of it. At the very least, I ask that you go on this hunt of hers and take her measure for yourself.
So, where to for our hunt? The stronger the prey, the better!
The chance to see not only Tural, but the fabled golden city besides... This is the stuff of grand adventures, my friend!
Wh-Which is not to say you should hastily accept this invitation, mind. There's still a great deal we do not know.
So let us begin to rectify that by first getting acquainted with our visitor in the manner she suggests.
I'm not certain what might be a suitable location for her hunt, however...
When I was at the guild earlier, I learned about a petition from researchers on the Isle of Haam.
You went there not long ago and culled some unruly fauna, of course, but according to recent reports, other ordinarily docile fauna have grown savage.
It's believed that they've been unsettled by some manner of predator, and so the researchers seek assistance with identifying and dispatching it. As part of your hunt, perhaps you might answer the petition?
The isle isn't far, and we would also be helping those in need...
That works for me!
Just so you know─I've honed my skills against some of the fiercest beasts in Tural.
Whatever this creature is, it had better be able to put up a proper fight, or it'll end before we have the chance to get acquainted.
And before we can prove ourselves capable and dependable companions...
My apologies, but I must see to some preparations. Pray go on ahead to the isle─I will join you as soon as possible.
If the rest of you are ready, let us head to the harbor. This being guildship business, it should be simple enough to secure a vessel.
We have the loan of a ship from one of the captains─a cheery fellow. I can operate the vessel, so we don't need to trouble him to take us.
Krile was acting a little strange, don't you think? This is just a simple hunt. I wonder what preparations she needs to make...
So we have to take a ship? Ugh, and I've barely set foot on dry land...
Oh well, I suppose it's for a good cause─a hunt!
Come on, let's get going!
From here, we must walk.
So much ice... It rivals even Yok Tural.
Ooh, a white bear! I wonder what it tastes like...
Remember, we're here to deal with creatures that have been deemed an unacceptable danger. Do not attack anything else unprovoked.
I know, I know.
So this is the isle where aether literally bursts forth!
Aye, the Isle of Haam. The geysers lie deep inland, however.
You really are knowledgeable. Koana told me nothing about this place.
I doubt your brother managed to come out this way. He's like to have toured facilities like Labyrinthos, however.
The great big cavern under the city? It's amazing that they could make a sky down there, complete with a sun.
This brother of yours... He has been to Sharlayan?
He has. Koana's my second older brother, and until recently, he was a student in the city.
He went on and on about “technological amusements.” It made me want to come here too one day.
And so I did. I think I understood something of how he felt when I set foot in his beloved Studium.
He went to the Studium? Your brother must be quite a scholar.
But I wonder... Like you, he'd be royalty, yes? Such a personage coming to Sharlayan to receive an education would surely have caused a stir, yet I recall nothing of the sort...
He consulted with the head of the Studium beforehand, that his identity might remain secret.
Being Miqo'te, he had no trouble blending in. He's adopted like me, you see.
One time, though, he almost let it slip to a professor. It was all he could do to parry the barrage of questions.
Having no shortage of questions myself, I can imagine.
Ask whatever you like. I don't mind. But I maintain hunting together is the best way to get to know someone.
The researchers should be up ahead. Let's find them and learn what we can.
The researchers should be just ahead.
There─the building to the northeast.
So, ordinarily harmless creatures have grown savage...
Don't know what's got them riled up, but I'll take down any that thinks to try me!
I'll leave the fighting to you.
Right, let's hunt our fill!
Well struck!
All right. Let's keep moving.
Look! Someone's in trouble!
