Hm? What do you want with me?
Right, the greeting...
Ohokaliy!
Ohokaliy!!!
Good, you've brought your manners with you.
When in Ok'hanu, do as the Hanu do. For a country as diverse as ours, the preservation of harmony demands that we respect the cultures of all peoples who call it home.
Well...that explains your familiarity with Hanu customs.
And you speak truth, of course. To live together means to learn about each other.
Ah, I appreciate an open mind.
In fact, I get the sense we've met before...
You─ You're Wuk Lamat!
Oh, what an unexpected honor for old Wuk Evu! Here I am prattling on about manners, and I've gone and insulted the Third Promise herself! There is no excuse for this betrayal of etiquette.
Please, take up your axe and claim my impudent head...
I will not! Keep your head!
I hate formalities anyway, so forget about it, all right?
All right, then. Consider it forgotten.
How...prompt.
We're actually here about the Ihih'hana float. It's in bad shape, and we need you to craft new carrying poles and a new eye. I'm told you work with uyuipo wood and a certain kind of stone...er, abokixa?
That I do. But while I would like nothing more than to offer my services, I just used the last I had of both those materials.
My lumber in particular went to fixing homes damaged by the recent storm. I'll need ten days or so to restock.
We can't wait that long. If you tell me where to go, I'll gather them myself.
What? Send the Third Promise out on an errand like some common lackey? That's utterly unconscionable! A gross violation of social protocol!
I told you not to worry about such things!
All right, then. I shan't worry a whit.
What's with your Hanu friend there?
I am festival leader this season, and have come along to oversee the float's repair.
As strange as it may sound, Wuk Lamat and her friends believe the float is an arcane focus meant to encourage the growth of our struggling reeds.
Too many Hanu have forgotten, it seems, but that is indeed the true purpose of the Lifting of Wings. Your education is impressive, Third Promise.
Well...maybe a little!
Allow me to show you where to procure uyuipo.
We can leave the abokixa to your friends, I presume? Take yourself to Cave Kikitola or thereabouts, and you should find the stones you need.
I've been there once or twice. I can guide you.
That should save us some time.
Alright, then! Let's get moving!
