This is unacceptable! Unacceptable, I tell you! To have so many mortals appear at once...
It's more excitement than we can bear!
Greetings, Elder Wyd Aenc, Tyr Nee. It hath been a while.
Pray forgive my brevity, but time is against us. We are come to borrow the stone scepter of the Nu Mou.
Th-The stone scepter? Then...you mean to lift the seal over Lyhe Ghiah!?
That is unacceptable! Unacceptable, I tell you! If the king is set free, none here will be safe!
Unlike our fae cousins, we Nu Mou have called this land our home since time immemorial. Leaving is unthinkable.
Thus did full many of us lay down our lives to seal away our king when they were corrupted by light! If we do as you ask, our sacrifice would have been in vain!
But then you'll only become another Lightwarden! It changes nothing!
Easily said for one who hasn't experienced the king's wrath!
S-such discourtesy! It's unacceptable! Unacceptable, I tell you!
Honored Elder, pray believe me when I say that this woman is possessed not only of the strength required to vanquish the king, but of something still more valuable: a means to resist the resultant corruption. Indeed, she hath already laid low the Lightwarden of Lakeland, all without succumbing to the influence of its light.
She is yet a stranger to this land, 'tis true, but she harboreth the selfsame desire to see the sin eaters eliminated as we do.
Wilt thou not lend us thy hand, that we might see thy beloved home restored to its former glory?
Hmmm... You have always done right by us, Urianger. If you have placed your faith in this woman, then so shall we.
As you say, we want nothing more than to be rid of the sin eaters.
Be that as it may, this is not a decision to be made lightly. We require time to deliberate. A turn of the moon, perhaps...
We don't have a turn of the moon. Unless we want to debate this with the Eulmoran Army.
Elder...given all that is at stake, I cannot well expect thee simply to roll over, and acquiesce to our request.
But even now, a powerful foe draweth near, and I fear I must beseech thee to hasten thy deliberations, that thou mightst fetch us the scepter while there is yet time to use it.
R-Roll over!? F-Fetch!? Ahhh! Ahhhhhh!
You know full well that naught gives us greater pleasure than to render aid to men!
You know full well, yet you speak the words of power regardless? It's unfair! Unfair, I tell you!
<sigh> In happier times, it was our honor to assist mortals in need and receive rewards befitting our deeds.
Since the Kingdom of Voeburt fell, however, we've been starved of man's patronage. After so many years of deprivation, it is...difficult to ignore such an earnest entreaty.
Very well, Urianger. I promise to give you as swift an answer as I may.
In return, I ask that you and yours remain here the while, and bestow upon us your patronage. Is this arrangement agreeable?
You will offer your patronage to our people too, yes?
Let's see... Perhaps you can begin with Marn Ose. They are one of our foremost artisans, once held in the highest esteem by the knights of Voeburt.
With the knights gone, however, Marn Ose has had no opportunity to put their skills to use. They would be overjoyed for your patronage.
