What? You...you would be my patron!?
But...I can't do anything for you. The lawless ones took my invisible ink, and without it I can't make my arcane wares.
Who are the lawless ones? They're Nu Mou like us, except they've turned their backs on our values. Curs without honor, they are.
They refuse to work, instead spending all their time cavorting and making a nuisance of themselves. It was when I was outside for a walk that they set upon me and robbed me of my possessions, the ink included.
I was too weak to resist them...but you, mortal─you look quite strong. Do you think you could take my ink back from those villains?
If you do this, I will consider it your patronage. And by way of my service, I will make you something very special!
E-Excuse me, Forename, but I couldn't help overhearing. If you mean to undertake this task, will you let me accompany you?
I would learn from you...and help in what little way I can.
Thank you so much!
Thank you! I promise I won't be a burden!
The lawless ones make their lair to the south, inside a cave called Father Collard's Chambers. They took many vials of ink, and I would be grateful if you could bring as many back as possible.
Father Collard's Chambers is through here. I peered inside, and sure enough, it was milling with Nu Mou. They looked none too friendly.
If Thancred were here, he'd tell me to go about it quietly and quickly. Let us split up.
I'll find all the ink I can and then come back outside. See you shortly, Forename.
Oh, thank goodness. There you are.
Those Nu Mou were rather frightening. I'm glad you're safe.
I haven't seen much actual combat, so I was a little nervous, but I'm happy I could help.
Thancred taught me─but I'm still a novice.
No. Of course. How silly of me. You're a hero...
The Minfilias before me battled sin eaters as part of the Eulmoran Army.
But that had all changed by the time I was found. They held me captive so that I wouldn't follow in the others' footsteps.
I'd still be in my cell now had Thancred not spirited me away. When he found me, I knew nothing of the world. I didn't know how to live, let alone fight.
Thancred once told me that if the efforts to summon you failed, it would fall to me to face the Lightwardens.
I realized then that it was the only reason he kept me close─as a contingency. The truth is, he can't stand to be around me.
Because I'm not her. I'm not his Minfilia.
...Once, we journeyed to Nabaath Areng together. To the place where the Oracle appeared and stayed the Flood.
As we drew near, I felt as though...I was fading away... I shut my eyes and covered my ears, and then... And then...
I'm not sure what happened after that.
I have a vague feeling that I said something to him. Only it wasn't me at all. It was her.
Afterwards, Thancred didn't say a word. Only kept to himself and brooded.
There's nothing I can do for him. Nothing I can offer but my presence─though it only reminds him of his loss.
She should be the one to live on. That's why I tried to find you─because I knew that was what she wanted.
But now that you're here...I'm not entirely sure what it was she intended me to do.
Was I meant to tell you something? Or bring you to someone? Or somewhere? I can feel the answer at the edge of my mind, just out of reach─
Ahhh! What...what is that!?
