You fight valiantly, mortals, but to no avail!
Absolute darkness draws nigh. Soon it will be unleashed, and all shall return to nothingless!
Mine is the power of darkness! Even the stars must bend to my will!
I shall crush all who dare oppose me!
My defeat...means nothing... Darkness...shall devour all...
Forename!
You did it! You defeated Emperor Xande!
Empires may rise and fall, but man's indefatigable spirit ever lives on. Truly, you are the champion we had hoped for, Forename Surname.
With Emperor Xande now at eternal rest, his dark legacy may be undone.
What are you playing at now, Nero?
In case you haven't noticed, Garlond, these are dangerous surrounds. Can a man be faulted for exercising due caution?
At any rate, you needn't mind me. I am perfectly capable of looking after myself. Go on and finish what you came to do.
There are two ways that we may seal off Syrcus Tower: either isolate it from the outside world, or cripple its ability to produce energy.
The choice of method is yours to make. Before you proceed, however, Doga and I must needs attend to a task.
That distortion... What is it?
The power that Xande sought to obtain comes from the void─the World of Darkness, our people called it.
And the true nature of that power was none other than the armies of voidsent.
Voidsent feed on aether, as you may already know, and no plane is richer in it than ours.
In exchange for their allegiance, Xande entered into an unholy covenant. He would open a gate through which the voidsent could freely enter our world.
The covenant, I'm afraid to say, is still in effect. However, being of the emperor's lineage, Unei and I believe that we can annul it.
By his blood Xande sealed his dark pact. By our blood it shall be undone.
It is time.
Yes, Doga. Finally, we may fulfill our purpose.
Hahahahaha... AHAHAHAHAHA!
Oh, be still my beating heart!
For a moment I feared that this outing would end in disappointment, but my readings were not mistaken! Not even the Ultima Weapon compares to this!
What are you going on about!?
