Oh, oh! Just the other day, Estinien came to see us! Everyone was really excited!
Truly? Estinien paid you a visit?
...That is well.
Is she a new friend?
Friend... You know what that is?
What!? You mean you don't!?
She is a visitor from a faraway land, you see, and is still unfamiliar with our language.
Then we'll teach you! A friend is someone you like to play with!
Play with...
Zenos seemed to be enjoying himself when he fought you. Is that the same thing?
I see. But...is having someone to play with so fulfilling? I still do not understand why.
Then I'm no closer to understanding it.
Why he traversed the great expanse─why he risked life and limb...for you...
...But I waste energy dwelling on such things. I am not Zenos. I stand to gain nothing by knowing his heart.
I'm sorry I couldn't explain it well...
There's no need to apologize. The fault is not yours, but mine for failing to make sense of your words.
Well, we had better get back to our errand.
Good-bye! It was nice meeting you!
What is a friend? 'Tis a seemingly simple question, but the answer is anything but. Only a child, innocent and pure, could reply with nary a moment's hesitation.
Through Zenos, I thought I understood the ways of your world.
But the more I learn of it, the more I realize how little I actually know. It's all so strange─your behavior and your reasons. I find myself baffled at every turn.
...But the feeling is not unwelcome. I'm...learning, bit by bit. It was the right decision to join you.
Darkness warped all life in the void. Even plants. Only now do I recall flowers, and the value they held.
I believe Zero's time here has been rewarding, and 'twas in no small part due to your company. My thanks for agreeing to join us.
Come, let us return to Meghaduta.
Welcome back, Mistress Surname. Will you be heading to the guest chambers?
So, what are your impressions of Radz-at-Han?
There's a lot of mortals.
Considering your origin, I can see why that might be your first observation. Though they would call each other “people,” I think.
If you wish to know about our fair city, I should be glad to place a guide at your disposal.
No need─I'll show myself around. There's only so much about my home I can share with you in return, after all.
While I remember some few tales of the past, I cannot speak to their authenticity.
But if that is enough, then I will tell you of the events that saw Darkness engulf our world─the Contramemoria.
We are all ears. Please.
Long ago, Light filled the world, and all was at peace.
But then the servants of Darkness came, and they bequeathed a black art unto men.
Channeling the power of hope and prayer, one could call forth fearsome beings known as eidolons.
The Ascians. And these eidolons are surely primals.
Then you have faced the same, and understand that when an eidolon is birthed, strife follows. And in such strife, the weak are first to suffer.
When it seemed the world would be plunged into chaos, heroes appeared─they who were blessed with a singular power.
The power to bind the aether of eidolons within crystals known as memoria.
My mother was one such memoriate. But in fighting to save many, she herself was touched by Darkness─as was I.
And so you were born part voidsent. Before the world was overcome?
How exactly did that calamity come to pass? Did the memoriates not triumph?
They did. They expunged the seeds of chaos and restored the peace...only to find themselves seduced by the Darkness they had sealed.
They spread the taint, transforming men into monsters─what you call voidsent─and raised armies to wage new wars.
Not the first to be corrupted by power─nor the last.
Some defied temptation and held fast to the Light, my mother and I among them.
For years and years we fought, but it was not enough. And when our strength was spent, our bulwarks broken, so too was the world.
The Flood of Darkness...
The stars faded from the heavens as a pall black as pitch enveloped creation. Darkness raged unchecked, rending the very walls of reality.
I was cast into the rift, and there trapped for what felt like an eternity.
Until I came upon a crack. Tiny, infinitesimal─but enough for me to squeeze through...
...And find my world changed beyond recognition. Into the lightless waste you saw.
So that is how you were able to escape becoming a voidsent in full.
I suppose I should consider myself fortunate. Were I like most others, I wouldn't have lasted a day before being devoured.
We the lost are better equipped to survive in a lost world.
A lost world, you say?
I wouldn't be so sure. The Thirteenth is still there, is it not?
What are you getting at?
To explain requires that we initiate you into the truth of the Source and its reflections. Be warned that this will take a while...
Then...unlike the worlds that have been rejoined, mine still...
The Oracle of Light prevented the First from being completely overcome, so the situation may not be completely identical to that of your Thirteenth.
But the fact remains that we were able to restore a measure of balance to a world brought to the brink of destruction.
Which gives me cause to hope there may be a way to restore Light and life to the Thirteenth.
Of course, these are only possibilities. I offer no guarantees.
But having experienced what we have, I daresay we are more qualified than most to speak on the matter.
Wait, I don't understand. Why would you say these things? As if you mean to...
But the sole reason you came to the void was...
To find a dragon, aye. And in light of what we've seen, we'd be fools to strive for more.
But we Scions─former Scions, begging your pardon─have a habit of not leaving well enough alone.
And old habits die hard, don't they, my friend?
Restoring the Light would serve our efforts to find and free Azdaja. There is no reason not to try.
...Do as you will. I have no desire to save that world.
Be that as it may, we will have need of your power when next we face voidsent.
You know how it works. If you want my help, you must pay my price.
And now that you've drawn Golbez's attention, it's going to cost you more. A lot more.
I will consider this a deposit.
Though our time in the void was short, we managed to ascertain that my sister yet lives. And it cannot be overstated how fortunate we are to have met Zero.
But the greater blessing is nevertheless you, my friend. For your encouragement to embark upon my search anew, and your help in overcoming the challenges thus far.
Golbez and his minions will seek to stymie our efforts. Of this we can be sure.
But with you all at my side, I have confidence that we will succeed. That we will find and liberate my sister. And that we shall return home together.
But with you all at my side, I have confidence that we will succeed. That we will find and liberate my sister. And that we shall return home together.
First Scarmiglione, and now Barbariccia... Useless, the both of them.
'Twas no lie─they conspire with a memoriate.
And their search for the dragon will lead them here.
The war looms nigh. We cannot allow these interlopers to interfere.
If I may, my lord, I have a plan to eliminate them.
In order to guarantee its success, however, I will require Cagnazzo's cooperation.
If there's sport to be had, then I'll play along. As much as I dislike following your lead, I have no patience for scheming.
Well and good to have confidence, but do not forget the cost of failure.
Rest assured I will see the dream to fruition. Even should I be consumed by my own flames, I will pave the way for one and all.
Then I will trust in your oath and your plan.
We will give you cause to rejoice, my lord. This I vow.
Heh heh, some excitement for a change!
No sacrifice is too great. Even should my four archfiends be lost, I will not halt my steps.
The prison of passivity is an obstacle to my cause. And so you must fall.
What irony that the blessed damned should set us free!
As I swore so long ago.
The gate lies open. At long last, my ambition shall be fulfilled!
Ah, Forename. As always, your timing is most fortuitous. I wish to share with you news concerning Zero.
You will recall that, in exchange for aether, she agreed to aid us in our search for my sister.
At Y'shtola's suggestion, I began providing said aether in the form of food. Zero has found the arrangement to be agreeable, and has been eating steadily.
In large part due to that, she claims to have already made a full recovery.
If you and the others are ready as well, I would set forth for the void once more.
Excellent. I shall inform Y'shtola and Estinien, and then go to collect my other vessel from the alchemists.
In the meantime, might I ask you to fetch Zero?
She was absent when I visited her chambers earlier, but I suspect you will find her in the corridor connecting Yuj and Kama. It seems she's grown partial to the view of the city it affords.
Once we have attended to our respective tasks, let us gather here.
Everyone is so...carefree.
Unafraid and unconcerned in spite of their weakness, and how easily their lives could be torn apart in an instant...
Such luxuries are lost to us. We have no hopes or dreams─not even the release of death. Only hunger.
Others are a means to an end. At times a literal one.
We forge covenants with men, and come here to feed. Or to die.
I thought it would be no different when I was summoned by Zenos.
Lives were tools to him, to be used and discarded at whim. In that respect, he was a voidsent at heart.
But towards you and you alone, he behaved...differently. And I cannot fathom why.
What was it that drove him? What made him choose such an end?
But enough about that man. He is dead, and we are all better for it.
Why are you here? Was there something you needed?
So you're heading back now. Then as per our bargain, I will go as well.
So much aether... I can't remember the last time I felt such fullness. I could get used to this.
I've been at the Great Work, discussing our experiences in the void with the alchemists.
Though they found much of it surprising, they were especially shocked to learn that Darkness prevents souls from finding rest.
If you're ready to get back to it, then so am I.
Everyone is here? Good. Let us set forth for the void once more.
What is it?
He's...calling.
What is the meaning of this...?
Unless I'm mistaken, that was intended for one of your kin. Who?
It was for the briefest of moments, but...I felt her. Azdaja.
I thought she was in the void.
As did I. Yet the presence was unmistakable.
Thus did I call out...only for it to fade and vanish.
Perhaps...she crossed over to the Source then immediately turned back?
I do not know...
Could she have found a way home...?
The how of it aside, if she was indeed in the Source, there may be clues where she came through that could lead us back to her.
Where exactly was it that you felt her presence?
Far to the north. That was all I could discern.
The north, you say? Beyond the Bounty─Garlemald?
As good a place to start as any.
My apologies, Zero, but your return to the void will have to wait.
I told you before that I have no reason to go back there. Do as you will.
...All right. I presume you wish to stay here in Radz-at-Han until we return?
You've kept me amply fed. I wouldn't be averse to helping you on your search.
If Azdaja was indeed here, other voidsent may have made the journey as well...
Very well, we would welcome your company.
If it's decided, then I'll contact our associates in Garlemald.
...It's me. Still talking everyone's ears off, I trust?
Understood. We'll see you there.
We're to rendezvous at Tertium.
We'll need to teleport to make it there in time. Can you?
Aye. I know it well from my time as an avatar.
Then it seems we're all set.
If there is nothing else, let us see to our final preparations.
Sister...was it really you?
So that was a dragon's roar. Quite a trick, imbuing one's voice with aether.
We have no reason to doubt Vrtra. Let us depart for Garlemald as soon as possible.
By all accounts, Azdaja is Golbez's prisoner, yet if she was in the Source...
It could be that she managed to escape from the void, if only for a fleeting moment.
But that is mere conjecture. If we want the truth, then we must go and find it.
Come, let's make for Tertium. Our friends are waiting.
People live in such places, do they? Not that I would presume to know their preferences, but it seems...uncomfortable.
I thought to depart from Radz-at-Han sooner, but Y'shtola insisted I bring warmer clothes.
This vessel does not feel cold as such, but she reminded me that, so long as I am Varshahn, it would be prudent not to appear overly conspicuous.
I trust you know the “associates” who will be joining us. Hopefully they have been keeping well.
Any moment now...
My friends, 'tis good to see you again.
And you. I was worried that the cold wouldn't agree with you, but you're both looking quite well.
You get used to it. It helps that there's no shortage of fuel and heaters like before.
Glad to hear it. Have you been working in Garlemald all this time?
We have. Though the worst is behind them, the people still have a long road ahead.
With the nation in ruins and the leadership void yet to be filled, there remains a lack of direction─a pervasive sense of aimlessness and worry.
Still, everyone wants to make things better, and we're here to help.
A lot of Garleans wanted nothing to do with us, but they're starting to come around. Slowly but surely.
You're too kind. But it's thanks to the cooperation of like-minded souls that we've been able to make any progress.
Indeed, it has not been easy. But we've been able to make progress thanks to the cooperation of like-minded souls.
The allied nations continue to send supplies which allow us to meet basic needs such as food and shelter.
Meanwhile, Jullus and a number of soldiers have begun a restoration initiative, with more and more volunteers joining by the day.
Like Alphinaud said, they've got a long road ahead of them. But we'll get there together─one step at a time.
But enough about events here. What brings you to us? And with new company besides.
This may take rather a long time to explain, but bear with me...
The Thirteenth!? After traveling to the edge of existence, I thought you'd keep your escapades closer to home for a while...
But I suppose there's no stopping you. Not that I'm one to talk, of course...
The heart of an adventurer cannot be denied.
You could have at least invited me too! Surely there was room enough for me and G'raha in the undersea vault?
Oh, it's fine. You can make it up to me on the next one.
I know, I know. I only meant to tease. Mostly...
But on a more serious note... Are we sure it's wise to keep Zenos's former avatar around?
I understand how you came to work together, but nevertheless...
You're right to be cautious. I'm a voidsent after all. But do not conflate me with Zenos.
To recall my time in his service─it...angers me...
Is that so?
I think we'll get along just fine, you and I.
Now that we are all caught up, to the matter at hand.
As we were about to resume our search in the void, I felt the presence of my sister Azdaja in the Source. Somewhere in the far north─perhaps even here in Garlemald.
If you have seen or heard anything out of the ordinary, I must know.
As a matter of fact, we may have.
In recent days, we have had to contend with a surprising number of voidsent. And not the lesser kind that occasionally manifest, but ones possessed of considerable power.
You think they might have been summoned? By whom?
We're not sure. But as Jullus reminded us, practitioners of a certain traditional Garlean art rely upon voidsent servants.
While there are no known reapers left in Garlemald, we can't rule out the possibility that some are working in secret.
To summon not one, but several powerful voidsent, is no small feat. But if Azdaja was indeed called from the void...
Then it is likely the same party is responsible.
Alternatively, the aetheric confluence at the Tower of Babil may have triggered an expansion of natural fissures one could use to cross over, but I think that improbable if not impossible.
Then we must assume these events have indeed been orchestrated.
Well, summoned or no, we've been trying to track them to their origin. It's the mountains to the east, we think.
Can you guide us there?
I would, but the terrain is too difficult to traverse on foot. Nor is flying an option due to the winds.
Too much ground to cover in any case. Is there no way to narrow it down?
There is one place we thought to look first: an isolated village rumored to have once been home to a reaper order.
That would indeed make an excellent start. Though the question of how to get there remains.
Jullus may be of assistance. Let us return to Camp Broken Glass and consult him.
Nothing appears to be out of the ordinary here at the camp. Let us see what we find at this village.
A village of voidsent users... Lest you think I have feelings on this─I don't. What others do is not my concern.
I had tempered my hopes, but thanks to Alphinaud and Alisaie, we might yet learn something of Azdaja.
I knew the twins wouldn't disappoint.
The people here struggle to survive as it is. The last thing they need is for Garlemald to be overrun with voidsent.
I expect it's been a while since you spoke with Jullus. He will be glad to see you.
Oh, Forename. What a welcome surprise.
And I see you're traveling with a large crew as usual...
Not to suggest that's an inconvenience for us. We'd be happy to share our supplies with you and your allies, should you require any.
Apologies if we interrupt, Jullus, but there is a matter we wish to discuss.
We've just finished our routine briefing, so you come at a good time. Is this about the voidsent?
It is. From what we can discern, they're coming from the mountains to the east.
Practitioners of the reaper arts once lived in that area, did they not?
Yes, they had a village there in the Lapis Manalis caverns.
The scythe-wielders forged pacts with voidsent, and took to battle with the beings at their side. For a time they played an invaluable role in our military, but the advent of magitek saw them fall out of favor.
And when some were unmasked as insurrectionists, the order was outlawed. The village is believed to be long abandoned.
My sister has been taken captive by voidsent. I sensed her presence in this land, and have come in search of her.
If voidsent have been sighted here, then I believe there is a connection. We should like to investigate these caverns you mention, but Alphinaud tells us they are not easily reached.
I'm afraid so. Deep snow and tumultuous winds rule out walking and flying.
If you want to get anywhere, you're going to need a magitek snowcraft. Alas, the last remaining functional one we had has broken down. Should still be over in Cerulea Ingens, where it was abandoned.
Is there anyone who can fix it?
Perhaps the former engineers at Tapper's Den.
Their duty included transporting ceruleum tanks to Juturna Platform G using snowcraft. I expect they had to maintain a few over the years.
That's worth looking into, I'd say.
In the course of delivering provisions, I've come to know the people there quite well. If they can help us, I'm sure they will.
May I ask you to accompany her? Given the presence of voidsent, it's best that we avoid traveling alone.
In the meantime, will you not tell me more about the mountain? I would like to learn as much as I can before commencing our search in earnest.
Come with me. I'll introduce you to someone who's well versed in the local geography.
Alisaie, was it? I wish to speak with you.
In that case, why don't you come with us to Tapper's Den? We can chat on the way.
I shall go and brief the contingent on the voidsent issue, that they too may be prepared.
If you want to eavesdrop, be my guest. It doesn't matter to me.
What was it you wished to talk about?
Why do you help these people?
What is it that you stand to gain?
I'm sorry?
You don't act on behalf of a higher power, nor are you bound by a contract. In spite of this, you help them. Why?
And there I thought it was something serious...
I help them because I want to. Because it's the right thing to do.
...But what do you stand to gain? You didn't answer the question.
Didn't I? I followed my heart. What I got out of it came after.
Was there anything else? If not, let's keep moving.
...Right.
To act not out of obligation or in pursuit of gain. To simply...live. And they survive like this...?
...
We should get back to it, but before we do...
Are you all right, Zero? Did I say something that confused or upset you?
...No. I'm simply trying to understand your perspective. If you wish to continue, I am ready and able.
Well, that's a relief! This isn't the sort of place you want to mull over things.
It's not much farther to Tapper's Den. I doubt we'll have much trouble finding an engineer when we arrive, so let's speak with the first one we spot.
Because it's the right thing to do...
This is one of the engineers, I think.
