To think I let that accursed two-headed Mamool Ja escape...  I am well aware other matters take precedence, but I struggle to stifle my anger knowing he goes unpunished.
For now, I must concern myself with Valigarmanda's present whereabouts. I hope we may count on your aid, visitor.
So, Erenville. Any ideas on how we can track Valigarmanda?
The tried-and-true method of comparing sightings with other signs of passage is the most reliable. But also the most time-consuming.
There is a second option... Not as reliable as the first, but if we're lucky, it will let us ascertain the Skyruin's whereabouts far more quickly.
Though a tural vidraal of extraordinary nature, Valigarmanda is still a creature of this world.
Like you and me, it is thus sustained by corporeal energy and possesses a unique aetherial balance. Which means this device should come in handy.
A floating hand!? Now's not the time to be playing with toys!
This is no toy─it's an aether seeker. As the name suggests, gleaners use it to detect the aether of living beings.
And you've had that in your pack this whole time...?
I can calibrate it to follow a specific aetherial aspect. The problem with Valigarmanda, however, is that it can shift freely between the elements of fire, ice, or lightning...
Well, we know that in order to awaken Valigarmanda from its icy imprisonment, Bakool Ja Ja cast spells which quickened its fire-aspected aether.
And the residents here were uniformly afflicted by burns.
Therefore the logical conclusion is that, upon breaking free, Valigarmanda unleashed a great fiery blast.
Then the choice is plain. Fire.
The seeker, however, is not without its faults. As we were not able to input our quarry's unique aetheric signature in advance, the device will respond to any living source of fire-aspected aether.
So, we have the reliable─yet slow─method of information gathering, versus the potentially swift─but easily misled─gleaner tool. I say why not pursue both methods at the same time?
Good idea! We'll have the first to fall back on if the second fails!
You travel with me, then, Forename. In case the seeker leads me to some other fiery fiend.
The rest of us can stay behind and talk to eyewitnesses. The more Skyruin sightings we can compare, the more accurate our information will be.
If no one has any objections, I shall remain here in the village and tend to the Yok Huy.
Very few are seriously injured, but I am wary of wounds inflicted by a creature like Valigarmanda. I should like to be close at hand should their condition suddenly worsen.
Right, it sounds like we all have work to do!
We should be on our way as well.
