Welcome to the Thaumaturges' Guild. It is fate that has guided your steps here this day, friend. I see that you harbor arcane ambitions...though your journey has scarcely begun.
Within these hallowed halls, the arts of devastation are taught─primeval magicks with which to bring about an enemy's ruin.
If you would join our ranks and wield such power, you must needs know of our beginnings.
The nation of Ul'dah inherited its traditions from ancient Belah'dia, a city founded by the descendants of the first mages.
The secrets of these illustrious sorcerers were ultimately entrusted to the priests of the Order of Nald'thal, who have passed them down from generation to generation ever since.
Focused and refined over centuries of use in the Order's funereal rites, the arcane magicks of our ancestors eventually emerged as the art we now know as thaumaturgy.
A freezing blizzard to halt corruption; a raging fire to cleanse the corpse; a bolt of lightning to expel the sins of mortal life... The dweomers employed in the preparation of the dead are equally efficacious when applied to the living.
It is for this reason that we are feared and respected in equal measure. Thus does our guild thrive, ensconced in the catacombs of Arrzaneth Ossuary─a sanctuary devoted to Thal, divine arbiter of the afterlife.
What say you, then, adventurer? If you would plumb the abyssal depths of thaumaturgy, let our learned sages guide your descent!
Ah, but before you leap into the darkness, you must prove to our guildmasters that you are possessed of the spiritual fortitude necessary to look upon that which waits therein. When you are ready to submit to the judgment of our most eminent mages, say the word.
Well, adventurer? Will you join our guild, or do you presume to ignore the urgings of impatient destiny?
A wise decision, indeed. To prepare for your initiation, I would have you study the volumes of fundamental thaumaturgical principle. All one hundred and eight of them.
...Or at least, I would if such requirements had not been abolished. “Too great a deterrent to fresh novices,” they said. I suppose you shall just have to settle for calling upon the collective wisdom of our guildmasters.
We have five, you see─all brothers of the same house. Though they all wield supreme authority, it is the eldest who provides a singular voice for the guild when one is required. Master Coco... Cocoby...? Cocobygo! ...I believe.
