Shoo, shoo! Don't bother me! If the Amalj'aa overrun us, I'm blaming you!
For me? You shouldn't have! ...Sorry? A suspicious masked man? As a matter of fact, I caught glimpse of someone fitting that description during patrol.
Well, I couldn't quite make out whether it was a man or not, what with the mask and the robe. But assuming it was a he, he was talking with some Ala Mhigans. I assumed he was one of them.
Ah, you're back. So, did my lookouts have aught to share with you? ...Hmmm, that doesn't sound like much to go by.
If you're to get any further in your investigation, seems to me you'll need the cooperation of the Ala Mhigans. For this, you'll need to win their trust, and that won't be an easy task.
So you're determined to press on with your investigation? Then I have some advice to offer.
As I said before, you won't get far without the Ala Mhigans' trust. And the best way to win that trust is to get a compatriot of theirs─someone they respect─to vouch for you.
Coin does the talking in Ul'dah, but the Ala Mhigans are bound by something far stronger, if not as tangible: a common purpose. That purpose is, of course, the liberation of their home from the Garleans.
Gundobald belongs to the Ala Mhigan Resistance, so your best bet would be someone who's part of the same crew. If you know any well-connected people, you might want to start by asking them.
Welcome back, Forename! How fares the investigation?
...I see. Given all that they have suffered, it is of little wonder the Ala Mhigan refugees have lost faith in their fellow man.
They have had their homeland taken from them, and for the past two decades have had to see it remain in the enemy's clutches.
To compound matters, none of the three city-states have the means to take in all those who were displaced. As a result, a great many Ala Mhigans now live on the margins of society, suffering poverty and discrimination.
Would that more could be done to ease their hardships. I fear that nothing short of reclaiming their homeland would be a lasting solution.
But let us deal with one problem at a time. Returning to the matter of your investigation, it just so happens there is an Ala Mhigan native among the Scions. I should be pleased to introduce him to you.
Your Ala Mhigan comrade is named Haribehrt. He joined our cause in the hopes that he might find a way to liberate his homeland.
While he spares no effort towards that endeavor, I have no doubt that he would be glad to assist you.
If I recall correctly, Haribehrt is currently between missions. Try looking for him in the storage area.
