You there─adventurer. You sailed in on the last ferry, did you not?
The captain reported being attacked by a pirate vessel. And several witnesses have testified independently that a passenger matching your description went out on deck mere moments before the incident took place. Sending your friends signals, were you?
Now 'old on a just a moment there, officer. Ye've got the wrong lass.
This fine, upstandin' young lady is me dear departed grandma's sister's niece's cousin's closest companion. The lass wouldn't be caught dead fraternizin' with such unsavory elements.
...Is that right? Ahem. You are surely aware of the recent kidnappings? Respectfully, then, we cannot be too trusting of outsiders at a time when the loyalty of even our closest friends is in doubt.
Aye, ye make a good point there, officer, a very good point. Very wise. Ye needn't worry, though─I keep one eye open at all times, me, an' two more often than not. Now, sir, what say ye to a tankard o' me finest ale afore ye return to yer duties, eh?
Not a watered-down cup of piss like last time, I should hope?
Ain't got the faintest idea what yer on about, officer. The Wench might offer some o' the cheapest grog this side o' the Strait o' Merlthor, but that don't mean it won't get ye good an' pickled! An' look, there's a chair over there just cryin' out to be sat on, so kick off them 'eavy boots, eh!?
Ye'll 'ave to excuse these eager bloody Yellowjackets. There's been a spate o' kidnappin's, see, an' they ain't got a clue who's behind 'em. Naturally, they've taken to clappin' irons on anyone who looks vaguely suspicious, which means 'venturers, visitors...an' pretty much every bugger else in this town.
Don't take it personal, though. Us Lominsans can be an 'eadstrong bunch o' bastards, 'tis true, but given time, we'll grow on ye. Now, where was I...?
Oh aye! Welcome to Limsa Lominsa, where the sea's as green as the faces o' me patrons after a few too many Blackbelly whiskeys!
Now, take a moment to gather yer wits, an' we'll get started with learnin' ye the ways o' the city.
Right, then. Let's start ye off nice an' easy with three tasks what'll 'elp ye get used to life 'ere in Limsa.
Firstly, if ye 'ead down a floor then point yer nose to the west, ye'll get an eyeful o' the great glowin' crystal in the middle o' the courtyard.
That's an aetheryte─a device what can move ye from one place to another in the blink of an eye. Ain't no swifter way to travel─providin' there's an aetheryte where ye want to go, o' course.
'Ave a chat with the Yellowjacket on guard down there an' ye'll be treated to a lecture on the workin's o' the device. 'Fore ye do that, though, remember to touch the thing. Strange as it sounds, it won't work till you 'ave.
Second on the list is the marketplace. Ye'll find weapons an' armor an' all yer 'venturin' bits an' pieces fer sale in the district what lies beyond the aetheryte.
Don't go throwin' yer gil around just yet, though, or ye'll get fleeced quicker'n ye can say, “Why's me coinpurse so light?” 'Ave a word with Swozblaet, instead. 'E's the 'ead o' the Merchants' League, by the way.
Give 'im this old octant, an' 'e'll treat ye well.
Fer the last o' me 'elpful 'ints, I suggest ye meet some fellow axe-wielders at the Marauders' Guild.
I guarantee ye'll learn a few new tricks fer swingin' that 'ead-splitter o' yours if ye join their crew. Blauthota at the front desk is the one to get ye started.
Got all that, lass? Seein' to them three tasks'll take ye on a little jaunt 'round the city, an' 'elp ye work out where everythin' is. Now, I've best be gettin' on. Run along, eh?
Bugger it! There I go, sendin' ye off without tellin' ye summat crucial. That bloody Calamity's made a right mess o' me memory, I swear. Well, that or the ale... Anyroad, while yer out, if ye 'appen to pass any poor sods what look like they might need yer 'elp, consider givin' their tale o' woe a listen, eh?
Sounds like a chore, I admit, but ye never know what interestin' opportunities could be lurkin' out there, just waitin' fer ye to stumble on 'em. Fer example, Niniya over yonder's been castin' glances at ye since ye waltzed in.Why not lend an ear an' see what she 'as to say? Aye, yer like to find yerself runnin' odd errands in the beginnin', but once ye build a reputation as a man folk can trust, the jobs'll get 'arder an' the rewards more generous.
If ye've the time, I'd also seek the advice o' the Smith 'ere in the Wench. The lads as bear that title 'ave some fine advice fer them what're just startin' out in the profession. An' that, my lass, is 'ow ye go about becomin' a legend among 'venturers.
