I'm sorry? You wish to “recruit” me? Is this some new-fashioned manner of propositioning a lady?
Well, I'm afraid you are wasting your time─this lady is already spoken for! Good day to you, miss!
Hm? Wait, you're the lady who came to Little Ala Mhigo looking for that masked devil.
Who knows what might've happened if you hadn't... I'd probably be dead, and a whole lot more of my friends besides. We were such fools.
Anyroad, that disaster really got me to thinking─about our homeland, and about the outsider who saved us from ourselves. I realized how easily I'd been manipulated, and vowed to make of myself a more worldly man. So here I am.
...A new company of champions? And you say it will take me to all corners of the realm?
That sounds exactly like the kind of opportunity I need. And don't worry: I'm not the same stripling you met in Little Ala Mhigo. I've prepared myself to fight the evil I now know is out there.
How fared you, Forename? What hidden gems did the streets of Ul'dah offer up to your unrelenting gaze?
Hmmm... A single Ala Mhigan youth? Well, you've certainly given us an admirable start, even if our ranks are yet somewhat thin.
In these troubled years following the Calamity, talk of Eorzea's salvation must seem akin to grasping at clouds.
But there are those who have risen to the challenge, nonetheless. And the hope that inspires these people was born in no small part from the victories you yourself have won.
Thank you, Forename. I will not squander the precious gift you have placed into my keeping─these recruits will become the foundation of a new beginning.
And yes, we are free to begin. As you have no doubt surmised, the sultana also graced my trial company with her blessings.
Our first wave of recruitment is over, the documents signed, and the finances secure. There is naught to prevent me from taking the next step.
...You are concerned by the Syndicate's involvement? As was I. Thus was the origin of every coin of their contribution carefully scrutinized and recorded. This organization will not be built on corruption.
Naturally, I would prefer not to rely upon outside sources at all, but even my family's substantial coffers could not sustain a venture of this magnitude.
And as for the rumors and doubt surrounding this enterprise... Well, such things shall plague us until the company has had a chance to prove its worth.
It will not be an easy process, but we will earn people's trust one success at a time.
...Speaking of time, we should waste no more of it. Let us return to the Rising Stones, and lay the first stone for a united Eorzea!
Tell me, General: what think you of Alphinaud's bold endeavor?
I think it is more than bold, Your Grace. His organization would pave the way for a united Eorzea.
Well do I understand his impatience. Since facing the common threat of the Ultima Weapon, our nations have seemed farther apart, not closer together.
Considering the many problems we face, should we not be glad that someone else is taking the initiative?
We have all pledged our cooperation, yet the grumbling continues behind closed doors. Ul'dah is not alone in her duplicity.
I myself have doubts as to the good this organization will achieve.
With the inclusion of the finest soldiers of the three Grand Companies, it promises to be a fearsome military body. But whom will it serve? Even under the watchful gaze of the Scions, it is not unthinkable that such a force could perpetrate a great wrong.
Does it not concern you that a significant proportion of its financial backing came from the coffers of the Syndicate? That those unprincipled worms might forge this extraordinary gathering of warriors into a private army?
I have trust in the Scions, Your Grace. They have spared us no end of trouble at the hands of the primals. If they seek reinforcements, I deem it unwise to deny them.
As for their finances, full many gave generously. And though our nobles proffered a sizable sum, their coin did not spill from the pockets of Lolorito and his cronies.
And what of the presence of our stalwart adventurer friend in this endeavor? I doubt the Warrior of Light would betray our cause.
Yes, there is that, I suppose.
Yet I have known people to change. Whether we will or no, the events of the age hurl us this way and that, like a dust devil skipping across the sands...
Can naught be done about Teledji?
I have explored all avenues available to us, Your Grace, but as Ul'dahn law now stands, we lack the evidence to convict him of any crime. To arrest him on spurious grounds would only play into his hands...
He has all but committed treason, and yet we can do nothing!?
Then what good our government!? What worth the royal house!? How deplorable this mockery of justice!
Have faith, Your Grace. It is not over...
<sigh> ...That is not a journey I soon wish to repeat.
But I cannot pause to rest─the culmination of all our effort is at hand. I must see to the preparations for the inaugural ceremony.
Thank you for allowing me to monopolize your services, Forename. I am certain the Antecedent will be relieved to see you free for other duties.
Greetings, Forename. Alphinaud tells me all is in place to begin his trial company─the Scions shall certainly be grateful to have the support of such an organization.
The inaugural ceremony is set to take place here at the Rising Stones. Tataru is cooperating with Alphinaud to see that all is in readiness, so I'm afraid the recruits themselves have been left to their own devices for the time being.
Quite a number of new faces have arrived in Revenant's Toll of late, and I wonder if Slafborn might not find himself overwhelmed. Would you speak with him and see if there is aught he requires?
What can I do for you, Forename? I thought you'd have your hands full helping out with this new arm of the Scions.
Ha! I barely noticed your recruits arrive─'twas barely a trickle compared to the flood of treasure hunters we have pass through here every day.
While I appreciate your offer of aid, 'tis more your burden that concerns me. I'm told this trial company will answer directly to the Antecedent, so I trust that means less work for you in the long run.
