Did you interview adventurers again today? What were they like? What kind of places have they been to?
Heh, you never get sick of hearing about adventurers, do you?
Never, ever! When I grow up, I want to be an adventurer too!
Well, that's as fine an aspiration as any, but do you know what kind of adventurer you wish to become? A hero like in the tales, perhaps?
Oh, no, Sister, not a hero. Adventurers are free spirits, and I want to be the freest spirit of all! Oh yes, I'll travel the world and meet lots of people, and when I visit home, you can interview me as much as you like!
For that boy to spurn help for want of my approval... I couldn't bear to see it, and in order to bring you to your senses, I may have spoken a little sternly.
As an adventurer, you'll experience no small amount of hardships, but you chose your path because you wanted to be free.
So don't let yourself be shackled by expectation, be it your own or that of others, and instead take things as they come.
So long as you are true to yourself and recognize your limits, you'll surely find a way forward. And remember: not even heroes can accomplish everything alone.
Relying on others doesn't make you a lesser adventurer. If anything, the freer we are, the more we need to look out for one another. And that, I believe, is the essence─and beauty─of adventuring. Wouldn't you agree, Forename?
Understood, Kipih. I won't ever forget this.
Knowing you, I expect you're raring to answer the explorer's petition in Limsa Lominsa. You'll be taking an airship, yes?
In which case, I shall give these garments to you now.
I had them made for you, thinking it was past time you had something better.
For me!? Thank you so much, Sister!
I must thank you too, Forename. You're the kind of adventurer I admire, and I'll keep on working hard to be like you.
I couldn't have asked for a better person to watch over my little brother. I appreciate everything you've done for him, and look forward to meeting you again, be it for a story or something else.
With that, we take our leave of you.
