Ah, to have so many men visit us at once! This is a joyous day indeed!
If it please you, please give me your patronage. As my patron, I ask that you remove the noxious mushrooms that grow in our cave. Flamespores, they're called.
We would tend to them with magicks, except they leave behind a harmful ash. We've no choice but to pluck them one at a time.
Now, you will be curious as to what I have to offer. I am a purveyor of wares that will aid you in your travels. In exchange for your fitting payment, I will give you my choicest items!
You've already removed the flamespores? How very quick you are!
Oh, but did you perchance search by the western entrance as well? I'm told that more have cropped up in that area.
Oh, but did you perchance search by the western entrance as well? I'm told that more have cropped up in that area.
<gasp>
I-I wasn't spying on you or anything. I've just finished my task, and...
I...I should go and report back.
Ah, you are returned. Have you dealt with the flamespores by the western entrance as well?
Excellent! No more poisonous spores irritating our noses, for a little while at least!
Oh dear, I believe I'm getting sentimental. Having a patron again...it reminds me of the old days. Fair every day, I would carry my wares to the castle to offer in exchange for men's patronage.
Back then the castle wasn't called Lyhe Ghiah. The Voeburtites built it, and they named it Gruenes Licht.
It was their last bastion in the struggle against sin eaters. And now they're gone, all of them. Nobles and knights and commonfolk alike...
But enough reminiscing─I must give you what you've earned!
And if you desire anything else I possess, I would be glad to offer them to you─for a fitting price, of course!
And if you desire anything else I possess, I would be glad to offer them to you─for a fitting price, of course!
Now, will you be offering your patronage to anyone else? If so, would you consider Wyd Lad?
They've been under the weather of late, and the chance to perform an honorable task would cheer them up.
