What's that? A package? I haven't the foggiest what you're talking about.
Confound it, that fool of a... <sigh> What a waste.
It was a gift, adventurer. Thierremont labors day and night without regard for his own well-being. At the very least, he ought to try to eat better.
...Why not simply give it to him? By the Fury, have you no sense of decorum? A highborn knight cannot be seen favoring a lowborn mason in such a manner!
Nevertheless, I appreciate your concern, as well as your willingness to assist Thierremont.
May your journey back to Falcon's Nest be safe and swift. Pray give my regards to Ser Redwald.
I must applaud your initiative, Mistress Surname. Rothe tells me you have been quite busy.
Alas, we have not the time to thank you properly. I have a task to which I would commit all able-bodied men and women─you and Lord Artoirel included.
Calm as ever, even when you must surely sense the gravity of the situation. A veteran through and through, just as Lord Drillemont said. Good.
We have lost contact with a reconnaissance party sent north to Riversmeet in search of the heretics' hideaway.
Whether they were attacked or met with some other misfortune, we know not. But regardless of the cause, we must act quickly, for this is a harsh, unforgiving land which can claim─and has claimed─the lives of many men.
To ensure we find our missing knights as quickly as possible, I have assigned each party a different area to search. You and Lord Artoirel will be working together. Seek him out when you are ready to depart, and good luck.
It seems we have been assigned the area near Camp Riversmeet, Mistress Surname.
Lest you are unaware, the camp was one of many our knights were forced to abandon when we withdrew from the Coerthas western highlands─one of many sacrifices made in the wake of the Calamity.
'Twould not surprise me if our knights took shelter there. There is but one way to find out, though. Let us be off!
There, below us─Camp Riversmeet, or what remains of it.
I see no way to descend the cliffs safely from here. Should we fall, the beasts below would make short work of us. Come─I know a path to the riverbed below, east of the Black Iron Bridge.
If the reconnaissance party came this way, I see no sign of it.
Still, it is possible that recent storms have obscured their trail, or that they took an alternate route to Camp Riversmeet. Until we investigate the camp itself, we cannot be certain. We must press on.
Are you all right? I heard sounds of a struggle.
