Hmph...
You glimpsed a woman atop the cliff? Could it be Iceheart herself come to sneer at our folly!?
And to where did she disappear? The heretics must have discovered a passage through the frozen wall─some hidden tunnel that escaped our notice.
We have not the men to risk further investigation. 'Twould be best were we to return to Whitebrim Front, and lay our suspicions before Lord Drillemont.
Forename, it appears I owe you my thanks once again. The surviving knights spared no detail in their report.
The men you found out near Snowcloak were some of my finest. That they should be bested so handily... I fear I have woefully underestimated the threat these heretics pose.
While I understand you might balk at the notion, I must ask that you put aside your mission and consider the stolen provisions lost to us for now. 'Twould be ill-advised to blunder unprepared into what may well be the very lair of our enemy.
Pray return to Dragonhead and inform Lord Haurchefant of your discoveries. He will wish to plan contingencies of his own.
As for Iceheart and her fanatics...the freezing heights of Snowcloak will not shield them from our justice for long!
Your return is most timely. Of their own accord, my thoughts had turned to your task and the progress thereof. I confess, my imaginings tended toward the grim and bloody.
But you are here now, and I suspect such frivolous wonderings do little justice to the reality of your travails. Tell me, what did you learn of Iceheart?
...Indeed. And this transpired at Snowcloak?
Of all the highlands, that towering wall has borne the worst of the region's brutal shift in climate.
So inhospitable has Snowcloak become that we have still to survey the area in its entirety. Could its frozen heights conceal the heretics' hideaway? Mayhap a more robust reconnaissance effort is in order.
Putting such considerations aside for the moment, we still know far too little of this Iceheart. That she is capable of commanding such a band of fanatics bespeaks natural authority, and no small measure of charisma.
As much as I would like to fathom this mystery with you, the situation has grown beyond my personal purview. I am bound by duty to inform the Temple Knights and request that they bring this matter to its conclusion.
Given the glowing reports their new commander has garnered thus far, I am certain that they can be relied upon to take appropriate action.
Though Iceheart's true identity yet eludes us, you have provided us with a point from which to begin. Sometimes it takes but a single stone to prompt an avalanche.
On the matter of the stolen provisions, I have already made arrangements for a second shipment to be sent to Revenant's Toll. I could not well allow such an honorable venture to be undermined by one miserable setback!
Forename! 'Tis good to see you return to the Toll! How fared you in the frozen wastes of Coerthas?
...House Fortemps is to send us a second shipment? I must send thanks to Lord Haurchefant for his continued generosity.
Yet even as our town grows in prosperity, I fear it will attract ever greater numbers of those who would do us harm in the name of greed or power. All of us, Alphinaud's new recruits included, must remain vigilant against such threats.
While you were away in Coerthas, preparations for the inaugural ceremony were all but completed. ...Although Tataru does yet seem somewhat flustered.
I've taken enough of your time. Why don't you head into the Rising Stones and see if your frantic receptionist could do with a hand?
These parchments need to be sorted, and these documents...why are they even here!? Oooh! I am sorely tempted to file the lot in my wastepaper basket!
Ah! Forename! You startled me! You...you wish to lend a hand? Splendid!
Would you be a dear and hand these uniforms to the new recruits? They're scattered about Revenant's Toll and I haven't the time to track them all down!
The recruits know to don their garb immediately and assemble here in the Rising Stones. You'll want to report directly back to Alphinaud if you don't wish to miss the ceremony!
I wonder if the Scions will ever have matching uniforms... A well-funded organization is a well-dressed organization, I suppose!
