Far across the sea, from the land of Doma, have we traveled. We seek audience with the ruler of these lands. Who here speaks for you?
Any bright ideas? A solitary flash of insight?
...No? Well then, for want of a better suggestion, I say we try picking Fufulupa's brain again.
Who knows, if we work together, we may yet find something of use nestled away within it.
Oh, but it is good to see you return! I have given some thought to the matter, and I have just hit upon a most disturbing possibility! How could I have been so blind...!?
Calm yourself, Fufulupa. What is this disturbing possibility of which you speak?
I was contemplating as to how the thieves' activities escaped our notice for so long, and then it came to me! What if there is someone among our own ranks conspiring with them─a traitor in our own midst!?
...It would be most unfortunate if your fears proved well founded, Fufulupa.
Indeed. If, for reasons of security, the Concern decided to transfer the remaining crystals stored in Horizon to another location, their plans would be discovered the moment the Brass Blades were informed.
Ah, but such a shipment would surely be well guarded. Would thieves as wily as ours risk open confrontation?
Mayhap not. But neither would the Concern be eager to present them with such an obvious target. Nay, they might instead elect to carry out the transfer in secret─to entrust the goods to, let us say, a lone Miqo'te miner, traveling without escort so as not to attract undue attention.
But who─ Ahhh, I see! Yes, the Concern may well elect to do that. But to travel with so much cargo would be a strenuous task indeed, and this miner would certainly need to rest upon the way. Mayhap...north of the bridge to Hammerlea?
A fine spot for a rest─would you not agree, Forename? ...Alas, the role of the Miqo'te miner is taken, so you will lie in wait to the north, and I will do the same to the south.
Ahem! Forgive me, my friends, but I have received new orders! I must inform my men at once!
Call me a cynic, but I would be surprised if these thieves lay down their arms and surrender. See that you come prepared to offer them some encouragement.
Stubborn to the last, as expected. You are unharmed?
A gang of Sea Wolf thieves, and in Thanalan, no less. I suppose there's a first time for everything...
Sea Wolves? All of them?
Aye, and all with the same taste in facial tattoos. Blue, in case you were wondering.
...Our thieves are a long way from home.
Thancred─if you would be so good as to attend to the outstanding matters in Horizon... I have inquiries to make.
To Horizon, then. Fufulupa will want to hear about your meeting with the thieves.
On behalf of the Brass Blades of the Rose, I thank you for your service to Horizon!
Ah, but we have not been idle! While you were afield, we succeeded in identifying the traitor within our ranks!
Is that so? Then, by your leave, I should very much like to have a word with the fellow in private.
Ah...no. I am afraid that will not be possible. Regrettably, he, um...managed to subdue the unit of Blades dispatched to detain him, and made good his escape.
Oh, for the love of─ And how did he manage that, exactly? Your men haven't been sampling that somnus we confiscated, have they? Or was he a giant in disguise?
N-No...but he was quite strong! A Sea Wolf─Lominsan born and raised, I believe. But do not worry─we will find him, you have my word on that!
I see... Pray keep me apprised of any developments.
Yes? ...She's standing next to me. ...Understood.
I fear our time together is at an end, my friend. Your services are required elsewhere. Awfully disappointing, I know, but one must follow where duty leads.
...You might try to look a little disappointed! Or do you mean to give me another one of your stoic nods? You do, don't you?
The Antecedent bid me tell you to make for Vesper Bay, where young Alphinaud awaits your coming most eagerly. It was he who requested your assistance.
Some commotion or incident─I am not privy to the details.
While you do whatever it is that Alphinaud has planned for you, I shall endeavor to track down our traitorous Brass Blade. And when I do, you may rest assured that we will have our answers.
You are late. No matter─I know where our visitors are headed. From what I have been able to gather, this vessel belongs to a band of Domans who seek an audience with the sultana. You are familiar with Doma, yes? In Othard?
Well, like the rest of the nations of the eastern continent, it is ruled by the Garlean Empire. Given our visitors' unannounced arrival, as well as the state of their ship, I suspect they did not leave their homeland under the best circumstances. Needless to say, I should be very interested to hear their tale and, more importantly, what they know of the current state of affairs in the Empire. Such information could prove most useful.
We would be fools not to pursue this opportunity, do you not think? Come with me to Ul'dah, Forename. Unless I am mistaken─and I am rarely mistaken─we will find the Domans bickering with a Sultansworn on the Royal Promenade.
...You are uncertain of your role in the proceedings? Insurance. If our guests are not themselves imperial agents, it seems fair to assume that they may be being pursued by some. And if not, who better than you to have on hand in the event of an unforeseen diplomatic incident?
Besides, I do so enjoy your sparkling repartee. Satisfied? Good. I shall see you in Ul'dah.
It matters not how many times you ask! Without the necessary permissions, none shall pass!
Pray understand, good sir! We have not the leisure to lodge a formal petition. Time is of the essence.
All I ask is that you summon your superior. Allow me to plead my case. Surely you can grant us that small kindness?
Away with you, and darken these doors no longer. I will not ask again!
