Kami be praised! She lives! She lives...
We're looking for her too, actually, but I'm sure she's all right.
We had no idea she hailed from Sui-no-Sato. How did she come to serve Doma as a shinobi?
It all began when she was a little girl. She and another child crept out of the village, having grown curious about the outside world. To Doma they went, where they met a young boy─a proud son of Yanxia.
His tales of imperial oppression left a lasting impression on her. When she returned, she spoke passionately of the Domans' plight and urged us to take the boy in. But my wife and I would not hear of it.
We thought the matter closed, but she never forgot his words. She became convinced that the Garleans would one day come for us. And it was in search of the strength to defend us that she left, years later, to learn the ways of the shinobi...
When the then Ruby Princess learned of this, she forbade Yugiri's return, lest she bring misfortune to us all.
We protested the judgment, but there was naught we could do. And so our daughter, who wanted only to keep her people safe...
Surely there is something we can do for these people? They who gave her aid and succor when no other would?
...I am but a humble stonemason. But if it is the Yasakani-no-Magatama you seek, I may yet be of some assistance to you.
The jewel is known to possess an unusual property. To the naked eye it is as jade, but when bathed in a particular light, it shimmers with a divine resplendence.
I have mined similar materials before. To find them, one must use these lamps.
They cast an invisible light, under which the stones sparkle. In the deepest depths, they are invaluable.
There is a sunken ship to the east. Though the currents may have spirited away her cargo, you should begin your search there.
Thank you so much. We will do just that!
I hope you find that which you seek. I only wish there were something more we could do to assist you... Know that you will be in my prayers.
And...when next you see our daughter, pray tell her not a day goes by that her parents and her brothers do not think of her.
We will. I promise!
If this wreck is the selfsame vessel of which Soroban spoke, then if the gods are good, the Magatama is nearby...
Ready your lamp and keep your eyes open, Forename. We're going to need to take this slowly. Move too fast and we risk overlooking something.
Ready your lamp and keep your eyes open, Forename. We're going to need to take this slowly. Move too fast and we risk overlooking something.
Ready your lamp and keep your eyes open, Forename. We're going to need to take this slowly. Move too fast and we risk overlooking something.
Ready your lamp and keep your eyes open, Forename. We're going to need to take this slowly. Move too fast and we risk overlooking something.
Ready your lamp and keep your eyes open, Forename. We're going to need to take this slowly. Move too fast and we risk overlooking something.
Ready your lamp and keep your eyes open, Forename. We're going to need to take this slowly. Move too fast and we risk overlooking something.
I swear, looking for a needle in a haystack would be quicker. Gosetsu will have died of old age by the time we finish. You haven't found anything, have you, Forename?
This...this is it! The Yasakani-no-Magatama, exactly as Soroban described!
Heh, it would seem that our fortunes have finally changed for the better!
Much as I would like to return and thank Yugiri's parents for their assistance, time is of the essence. I say we make for Tamamizu at once.
Hold on to it for now, Forename. Once we arrive, present it to the elder, and then we can finally learn how to deal with the Red Kojin.
You are returned, and with the Yasakani-no-Magatama, I trust?
Yes, there is no mistake. Well done, well done.
So...about the Red Kojin. You said there was a way to make them retreat into their shells? Are you ready to tell us now?
I did indeed, and yes...I am.
For you see, divinity resides not only in material vessels, but in individuals. In laying claim to this most sacred of treasures, you have demonstrated an affinity with the divine.
To treat with men and women such as you is to invite fortune into our homes. Gladly will we aid your cause.
All is ready, Soroban? Then give them what they require.
This is...a ceremonial knife of some sort?
Before this blade, that which is sealed shall open. The treasure vault of the Kojin, on the Isle of Zekki.
It is there that our most prized relics, be they of the Red or the Blue, are kept safe. Fiercely do the Red guard it, for its contents are more precious than their lives.
Were the vault to be attacked, their response would by necessity be immediate. Kojin would be summoned from malms around to defend their treasures.
...And were we to sow enough chaos, the Reds in service to the imperials would have no choice but to answer the call as well.
Giving the Confederacy the sign they've been waiting for! Without the Kojin, the imperials don't have nearly enough troops in Isari to hold off the pirates.
However...you must understand that the vault is holy ground: home to a thousand thousand kami. To intrude upon it without paying the proper respects is a sacrilege we cannot condone.
So...if we were to pay the proper respects, it would be all right? Great! How do we do that, again?
The Yasakani-no-Magatama is one of three most coveted treasures of the Kojin. The other two lie within the vault.
Were you to deliver the jewel unto the others, and thereby make them whole, the kami may forgive your trespass and instead delight in your...mischief-making.
So...if I understand you correctly, you want us to take the sacred jewel coveted by your Red brothers and deliver it to their treasure vault?
More or less. The Yasakani-no-Magatama belongs on the Isle of Zekki. So long as it finds its way there, we are satisfied.
The Magatama has chosen you to bear it to its brothers. Had it not, you would never have found it. And we would not be having this conversation.
I shall inform the Confederacy of your plans, and bid them make ready to act when the time is right.
The Isle of Zekki lies to the west of Sui-no-Sato. Look for a cave beneath the waters.
May fortune favor you in this and all other endeavors.
Right, then. I am not normally in the habit of sneaking into heavily guarded treasure vaults, but if this is the only way to convince the Confederacy to act, then so be it.
We should be prepared for a fight. The bigger the better. The kind where you'll wish you had seven of your most battle-hardened friends at your side...
I don't know about you two, but I'm as ready as I'll ever be.
Me too. Let's do this!
Right. Right. Naught left to say, then...
R-Right! Let's go and find that cave!
Me? Nervous? Come now. I mean, it's not as though I haven't risked my life in ridiculous ways before.
Well, maybe I am a little bit... Hm. Strangest thing, that. Completely out of character, even. Anyway, let's go!
Assuming this is the right cave, it should lead us straight into the heart of the Isle of Zekki...
Have you got a plan for once we get to the isle?
Hmm... How about two of us get the guards' attention while the third heads straight for the vault?
Afterwards, the other two join them there, and together we make a stand. With our numbers, it's not feasible to do anything more complicated, I think.
Fine by me. I like simple plans. I'll be one of the decoys, then.
You read my mind. I also had a mind to ask Forename to be one, given her peerless martial prowess.
Then it's settled. You two will make your way through the stronghold, creating as much chaos as possible. You know, have some fun.
Meanwhile, I will attempt to locate the vault and gain entry with the ceremonial knife. When I am inside, I will contact you via linkpearl.
Right! Come on, Forename! We've got work to do!
You're a sight for sore eyes! I hope Alisaie's all right too...
Forename, Lyse, can you hear me? I've found the vault!
Head northwest. There's a passage leading deeper within. Hurry!
There you are! The entrance is straight ahead.
Good timing, I might add. It sounds like the whole garrison is headed straight for us...
