Aye, Vorsaile has briefed me on the situation. Sanson once trained in these very halls, and I should like to hear his excuse for being captured so easily.
At any rate, you may count on our lances. That Sanson was one of our own is reason enough; this request comes from my longtime friend Vorsaile himself.
There you are, and not a moment too soon. Things have begun to move. Our scouts report that Nourval and his band have since returned to the Twelveswood.
They have made their lair in the North Shroud, near the shards of Dalamud. Even as we speak, the order mobilizes a unit for an assault. We must be there ahead of them.
Set out at once, and make first for Alder Springs; I shall instruct the others to join you there.
I will remain here to stall our forces as long as I can. Godsspeed!
Whew, we're ahead of the Twin Adder crew. Let's keep it that way and get right to work.
Our guild friends will take down the sentries and secure the area. We're free to get close to Nourval and give him the thrashing he deserves.
Well, well, I was not expecting you two. Here to deliver the Gridanians' answer, are we?
You wish, you craven whoreson! Whatever your demands are, it ain't got nothing to do with us!
So you are acting alone. I thought you had some wits. Or do you care that little for your friend?
Kill Sanson before you get your answer, and all deals are off─everything you've worked for up in smoke. Or do you care that little for your goal?
Hmph, mayhap you have some wits after all. But clever though your ploy may be, have you the strength to back it up?
Oh, don't you worry on that score. We're gonna knock you around so hard, all the scales will fall from your eyes.
And if that ain't enough to make you see clearly, I'll even slap in a song─something lively to wake you up from your misguided beliefs!
I will suffer none to stand in the way of my ambition!
Your ambition's shite, an' we're gonna make you see sense even if it means beatin' you senseless!
Hmph, you're strong... But I cannot fall! Not until my goal is realized!
Ugh, he's got spirit, I'll give him that...
But so do we, and we ain't gonna take it lying down! Time to fire things up with song!
Enough with that detestable noise!
Gah! I-I can't move... Break me out of this, Forename!
Stubborn fools! If you are so eager for death, I will give it to you!
What's this now? Keep your guard up!
S-Seven hells! Spread out or he'll skewer us both!
Why!? Why do you not understand!? Why do you not see the Ala Mhigans for the filth they are!?
Let each spear be thrust for everlasting peace.♪Let each arrow be loosed for the forest and the trees.♪And the greatest rule of all, for all men to embrace:♪Let each life be lived for smiles on every face.♪
Th-That song... How do you know it!?
I learned it just recently, with a spot of help from Jehantel here. He showed me Vainchelon's grave, which I understand your family's been tending for generations.
The song was engraved on the headstone. It's a fine piece, and it ain't hard to see why your ancestor loved it.
Taking up arms that we might have peace, so the words go. Words that came from Vainchelon himself, as a matter of fact.
The Autumn War gave birth to a good many anthems, and a good many of 'em borrowed his words. Take a look, and you'll notice a recurring theme: peace and harmony.
How dare you preach to me of my ancestor!? For generations, my family has sought justice for Lord Vainchelon! You couldn't possibly comprehend our pain!
Not us, perhaps, but I daresay your great-grandsire, Lord Landrenel, could comprehend it better than any man. He witnessed his own sire murdered before his eyes. He knew the painful truth, yet he chose to keep it a secret. Why was this, do you suppose?
It was because he knew that, above all else, his sire desired peace.
Had it been made known that their hero was struck down by treachery, ordinary Gridanians would not have been satisfied with protecting their homes. Nay, they would have demanded justice. They would have demanded blood.
The war would have raged on, leaving yet more death and destruction in its wake. And the peace that Lord Vainchelon dreamed of would have gone up in smoke. Knowing this, Lord Landrenel...
Spare me your lies! Lord Vainchelon desired Ala Mhigo's destruction! You cannot tell me otherwise!
Tell me, young man, did it not strike you as odd that I knew of Lord Vainchelon's grave? That which your family has kept secret all these years? The explanation is simple: I had the honor of knowing Lord Landrenel.
Like you, he admired Lord Vainchelon and everything he stood for. And what he stood for, first of all, was peace and harmony. If you would honor both their memories, you would do well to honor these ideals.
No... Th-This cannot be...
My ancestors despised Ala Mhigans. Y-Yes, they all did. If not, everything I've labored for...all the blood and tears...have been for naught...
I ask not that you forgive. But know that neither will we forget.
When the time is right, I will see to it that all know of Lord Vainchelon's great sacrifice. This I swear in Nophica's name.
I ask only that you believe, as your ancestors fervently did, in a brighter future─one of our own shaping, undarkened by shadows of the past.
Worry not, Forename, I am quite well. Thanks to you and Guydelot, it ended with only a few cuts and bruises.
But ere I may rest, I must see to one last task: making good on my promise to Nourval. Come, let us return to the Adders' Nest.
My apologies for keeping you waiting, Commander. I have Gylbarde's journal with me, and I will surrender it on one condition.
Once the veracity of the tome's contents is ascertained, the order must make the truth public knowledge when the time is right.
On this we are of a mind, Captain Smyth. Not only will I relay your terms to our leaders, I will speak strongly in favor of them.
But know that mine is but one voice, and more shall be needed if we are to strengthen our cause. As such, you must rise through the ranks swiftly to stand with me.
S-Stand with you? I fear it will take me a while to attain that honor. To be fooled and taken captive so easily... I am still green as summer grass.
'Tis true that the success of this mission is owed much to Sergeant Surname, and you would do well to give her your profuse thanks.
However, I suggest that you also give yourself more credit. You may have much to learn, but you will learn them in good time. This time, you were faced with numerous trials, yet did you not accomplish your mission in spite of them?
Aye, listen to Vorsie! We came back with the tome─no one can say we didn't do our jobs!
Look at you─a bit of praise, and you're a stunned marmot? That won't do at all! If you're gonna shape the future of our nation, you're gonna have to shape up!
You are right, Guydelot. From leading our unit to fulfilling my promise to Nourval, much rests upon my shoulders. Come what may, I will ever stand tall and forge on.
Forename, I must needs go to file my report, but ere I leave, allow me to offer you my heartfelt thanks. Not only for your invaluable aid, but for being an example to me.
By following your lead, I shall strive to become the best leader I can be, that my unit's song might one day serve to rouse all Gridania!
And off he goes. Good that he's hale and hearty, at any rate.
I'll stick with Sanson for a while, make sure he don't tear open any stitches. In the meantime, would you go and let Jehantel know we're returned? I'll be along myself soon enough.
But speaking of the old man, to think that he knew Vainchelon's son! You don't get to that age and not rub shoulders with a legend or two, eh?
...I see. My thanks for bearing word. Though Sanson and Guydelot may not have endeared themselves to the Twin Adder leadership, they have found a stout ally in Commander Heuloix. I must say, it truly stirs the spirit to see the younger generation blaze a new path.
And I pray that Nourval, too, will find his own path to walk─one that is paved not with hatred, but with hope. That leads to peace both in the world and in his heart. 'Tis what his ancestors would have wished.
In him I see them, and it calls to mind my days spent learning bow and song under his great-grandsire. A kindly old man who tirelessly tended his father's grave, never forgetting the ideals he stood for...
Somewhere along Lord Vainchelon's line, those ideals had faded away. But thanks to you and yours, they may yet be restored, and made bolder still by a true remembrance of the past. And the world shall be a better place for it.
Wait. You wouldn't happen to be...
Yes, of course you are. 'Tis plain from the way you carry yourself. You're just the sort of woman I've been looking for! You're perfect!
My name is Lue-Reeq, and I...am a bounty hunter. But not just any bounty hunter, I will have you know. Nay, I am not wont to settle for run-of-the-mill prey. I hunt sin eaters.
Not only that, I have recently set my sights on a particularly notable fiend─one of the four Cardinal Virtues, those infamous instigators of the Flood itself.
Naturally, it will take considerable strength and skill to defeat such a formidable eater, and I am not afraid to admit I cannot do it alone. However, with the aid of equally formidable allies, I am confident it can be done...
And you, my friend, are exactly the sort of ally I have a mind to recruit!
W-Wait! I have money! Lots and lots of money! You will be well rewarded for your service, on my honor!
Aha! I knew you would be interested! And should the challenge alone be insufficient motivation, know that I have substantial financial resources at my disposal. You will be duly compensated for your service, rest assured.
However, as much as I am certain you are the right woman for the job, 'tis only meet that I put your skills to the proof. A simple test should suffice.
Pray do not be offended, but you would be shocked how many people present themselves falsely in order to enrich themselves or to impress others...
Here we are! Our proving grounds! You need only slay a beast of suitable ferocity before my very eyes to demonstrate your own.
Naturally, we require bait to lure one out of hiding...
