That such a serious breach should be allowed... But it ends now.
We redeem our honor with your lives!
This is their leader?
Something's not right about this.
You truly believe yourself a match for us? The audacity!
On your knees!
Zoraal Ja will have your head on a pike!
You still stand. Impressive...
Know your place!
H-How...? How could you... Ugh...
We did it!
Oh. Over already...
Oh. Over already...
What!? But how!?
All right. No more games!
It's the same as Zoraal Ja!
That was no resurrection magick...
I call on the soul of the serpent, the great devourer. Give me the strength to destroy our enemies.
You'll pay for the souls you've made me waste this day.
Wh-What is that!?
A harrowing transformation.
He looks more snake than man now.
It's not unlike the chimeras of Allag.
I'll tear you limb from limb!
Give up now and I'll make this quick!
None can survive the serpent's art!
That was a most unexpected transformation.
He was more snake than man by the end...
Now to see what's inside the dome.
Right! Let's get moving!
What greeted us was not the home that I had left behind.
There was no mistaking we had reached Yyasulani, and yet...
It was wholly unlike my memories. The lands of my childhood had changed beyond imagining.
To where had I returned?
We tread on, the darkened skies above a mirror to my heart. Clouded with fear and uncertainty.
How...bizarre.
This cannot be Yyasulani, can it?
I don't know what I was expecting, but it wasn't this.
This is Yyasulani...?
What happened here...?
There was no sensation of passing into a different world. This couldn't be a reflection...could it?
I was prepared for something strange, but this... It's like another world.
I...I don't understand...
Things keep getting stranger and stranger...
It doesn't make sense...
That tower─was it always there?
No, definitely not. Nor the wall over there.
The material's not something we use in Tural. It's closer to what we saw at the gate to the golden city, or those mechanical soldiers.
Such a massive structure couldn't possibly have been built in so short a time.
Then I'm inclined to assume we've been transported to another location. Or perhaps...
Well, speculation will avail us naught. We need to learn more before we can draw conclusions.
Let's take a look around, then.
I recognize the lay of the land. It's definitely Yyasulani. And yet...
Haven't seen anyone so far...
This place is isolated by the dome, yet the skies are heavy with thunderclouds. The air oversaturated with lightning-aspected aether...
This place is unnatural in a way I've never seen before.
That looks like a train station, doesn't it?
That must be Yyasulani Station, where the passengers disembarked!
Then perhaps we'll find someone to talk to there. Let's go and investigate.
This aetheryte is of Turali design.
Amidst enormous alien structures, we have more familiar sights like this station...
This is a water tower for trains, isn't it?
It's fallen into total disrepair. Almost as if it hasn't been used in decades...
Hmm. I'm pretty sure this is Yyasulani Station...
But from the state of it, I'd swear it was abandoned years ago.
I'm not sure what to make of this. We should look around a bit more.
I think this thing is broken.
I think this thing is broken.
I think this thing is broken.
I think this thing is broken.
Finished poking around, have you? Let's gather everyone, then. I want you all to take a look at this.
It's one of the mechanical soldiers. Long since broken, apparently.
But I'd say its presence confirms this is indeed Zoraal Ja's domain we're in.
What about the rest of you? Did you learn anything?
So all evidence suggests this is Yyasulani Station...
Aye, and I've no doubt we're in Yyasulani. But I don't understand why these buildings are so run-down.
They were completed barely a year ago.
For new structures to deteriorate and enormous ones to appear in a flash... If I didn't know better, I'd say time flows differently here.
Is such a thing even possible?
We have encountered this phenomenon before, as it so happens.
Though it may be difficult to believe, our world is but one of several. In some respects they are similar to one another, but in others wholly different. We call them reflections.
Simply put, the rift between dimensions causes time to flow at a different pace in each world. While hours pass in one, years may have come and gone in another.
But if this is Yyasulani, then we should still be in the Source. The flow of time should be synchronized.
I'm not sure I follow all this talk of reflections and dimensions...
But if Erenville says this is Yyasulani, then it must be.
Your village is a little further along, right?
Erenville!
Oh, uh...
Y-Yes. It's a short distance to the northwest.
Let's head there next, then. Rather than talk theory, it's always better to confirm things firsthand.
