Dress shoes... Fancy dress shoes. An adventurer wearing fancy dress shoes...
Oh! Now those are some fancy dress shoes. Come, adventurer, I will show you to the briefing room.
Brothers and sisters of the sea!
Join me now in honoring this man for his services to our great nation!
May the Navigator guide and protect him on his journey till sea swallows all!
These pirates you encountered with the tattooed faces... They call themselves the “Serpent Reavers.” Their ranks are formed of cutthroats and madmen who have pledged themselves body and soul to the primal Leviathan.
From what we have gathered, they sought to swell their numbers by spiriting away any soul unfortunate enough to cross their path.
I need not tell you the depth of the animosity between us and the Sahagin. How any seaman worth his salt could devote himself to the fishbacks' god is a question for a more temperate mind than mine.
But thanks to you, our citizens may once more go about their daily lives, safe in the knowledge that they will not be dragged into the darkness by those execrable curs.
Such an extraordinary glow...
This...is one of the Crystals of Light.
By the Navigator...
After our encounter with the goobbue, you had a vision, did you not? Of a towering crystal?
You bathed in Her Light...
Y'shtola's conclusion is clear, and I see no reason to doubt it. You are the vessel of a higher power.
This...being from your vision was the Mothercrystal. Your description matches what little we know of Her.
And if She has chosen you, then your deeds may yet shape the fate of nations.
As once did the deeds of the Warriors of Light.
Know you the tale? Like you, they were not of these lands, yet they fought to protect us all 'gainst the corruption of the primals.
When the Garlean Empire began its conquest of the realm, these heroes joined the Grand Companies, and helped reforge the Eorzean Alliance.
And at the Battle of Carteneau, they took the field beneath our banners, to fight for everything we hold dear.
It was on that day, in the midst of that hell...that we lost them.
Every soul who survived that battle will never forget how it was to fight beside them. We are proud to call them our comrades.
Yet, whenever we try to shout their names, the sound dies in our throats.
And whenever we strain to see their faces with our mind's eye, naught but their shadows appear to us, set against a blinding light.
Ask any true Eorzean who knew them, and the story will be the same. It is for this reason that we call them “the Warriors of Light.”
When I look upon you, I cannot help but be reminded of them.
Keep that Crystal safe.
In time, I believe the Mothercrystal will make clear Her reasons for bestowing it upon you.
Heed well Her words, adventurer. For it is Hydaelyn Herself who speaks.
