Ohokaliy!
Oho...what now?
It's a Hanu greeting. Surely you heard it the last time you were here.
Well, I was busy enjoying the festival...
Greetings to the Third Promise and her entourage! I, Zanuhali, welcome you to Ok'hanu.
As elder of my people, I shall also be fulfilling the duties of elector during the rite of succession.
So our idea about the electors was correct. We just do as Papa said, and retrace his path from the saga!
I'm ready! Give me the feat and test my worth!
All in good time, all in good time. In fact, I came to let you know that we are not quite ready to begin.
For the moment, please enjoy the hospitality of our village.
Should we poke around a bit, then? We might pick up some clues about the feat. You know, prepare ourselves.
That's surprisingly prudent of you.
What! You think I'm being too cautious!?
No, no, I'm impressed, is all. You admire and respect your father, who is prone to decisive action, so I expected you to rush in first and ask questions later. Or never.
I do look up to Papa, but you should know that he has a pragmatic side too. The Head of Reason is the thinker who takes time to consider all the possibilities.
With the long naps he takes these days, though, the Head of Resolve is less restrained by his wisdom. I can't fault you for thinking that's all there is to him, but there's more to the Dawnservant you've seen thus far.
I should like to speak with the Head of Reason one day.
Ah, well...I'm sure you'll catch him awake soon enough.
To return to the subject at hand, you wish to take a look around Ok'hanu, then? Do some groundwork before the feat begins?
Something like that, I mean, I could probably pass this test with my eyes closed, but it'll keep us busy while we're waiting!
Wuk Lamat has the right of it. As Elder Zanuhali is a resident of this village, learning more about it can only improve our chances in the feat.
Right, then. It helped to do some investigating at Wachunpelo, so let's take a look around here as well!
Might I suggest a division of forces? For instance, Erenville, Alisaie, and Krile could concentrate on the southern half of the settlement.
Meanwhile, Wuk Lamat, Forename, and myself will handle this northern half.
Sounds good to me!
This is even worse than I expected...
