“Unknown”? My spies tell me the Domans call it “Shinryu,” and that it proved a match for Omega.Yes...the coming days promise to be most interesting.Most interesting.
“Unknown”? My spies tell me the Domans call it “Shinryu,” and that it proved a match for Omega.Yes...the coming days promise to be most interesting.Most interesting.
“Unknown”? My spies tell me the Domans call it “Shinryu,” and that it proved a match for Omega.Yes...the coming days promise to be most interesting.Most interesting.
The question is, how will the Empire respond to the disappearance of Omega and the primal...
Oh, I didn't see you there. Forgive me. Word from Baelsar's Wall is proving long in the coming, and my mind cannot help but stray to grim places.
Alphinaud! A message from the Alliance!
It's about time! Pray summon the others at once.
Yes, sir!
...General Aldynn reports that his forces have secured the breach in Baelsar's Wall.
And what of the primal and Omega?
There is still no sign of either at this time. He writes that they will begin a more thorough investigation shortly...
And, as expected, he wishes to petition the aid of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.
As expected?
The Alliance's decision to capture a part of Baelsar's Wall is...open to interpretation.
The Wall serves to demarcate imperial territory, Ala Mhigo included, from the rest of Eorzea.
To an observer, the Alliance's actions could be seen as a prelude to invasion.
Indeed. And the Alliance leaders have no wish to be branded invaders.
You're saying they won't fight for Ala Mhigo? Even after everything that's happened?
Not without the consent of her people, no. Make no mistake, Lyse─the Alliance is in complete agreement that the Empire must be purged from Eorzea.
However, they will not set foot in Gyr Abania until they have formally secured the consent and cooperation of the Ala Mhigan opposition.
...They would have us act as intermediaries?
Precisely. The Scions are uniquely qualified to serve in this capacity─that is to say, Lyse is, given her personal connection to the Resistance.
Who better than you to broker an agreement between the Alliance and the people of Ala Mhigo? ...Assuming you are willing, of course?
Of course I am. You know I'd like nothing more!
As for who should accompany you on said diplomatic mission...I had a mind to volunteer myself.
Well, that covers the talking part. But you just know there'll be trouble along the way. Are you available?
Thanks. It means a lot, knowing you'll be there.
Look, I know I've kept things from you, and I'm sorry, I really am. But that's all over now, I swear. And...it'd mean a lot to me, having you at my side.
I too shall accompany you. Such endeavors are seldom hampered by a surfeit of healers.
Good point! Allow me to offer my services as well.
I have spent quite enough time here of late, so I'll be coming, but we will need someone to keep an eye on things.
I trust you have no objections?
None, my lady. Gladly shall I continue to serve as caretaker of the Waking Sands, and there keep watch for signs of primal and Ascian activity both.
As capable as my learned friend undoubtedly is, there are some troubles that may prove too much for a single Scion─on account of which, I mean to stay.
It is settled, then. Let us each see to our preparations.
Ready, my friend?
Well, then. Tataru─I leave the Rising Stones in your capable hands.
Don't worry, Alphinaud! I'll see that the place is still standing when you come back!
Mistress Y'shtola has unfolded all. You are bound for Gyr Abania?
Aye. The Alliance would have us make contact with the Ala Mhigan Resistance as soon as possible.
It begins, then─as soon it shall in Doma, if the gods are good. 'Tis but a pity that it must be now. I am sorry that we shall not be present to fight beside you in the battles to come...
You have stood with us countless times, Lady Yugiri. Pray do not apologize.
Then let us thank you instead. You and yours stood with us from the first, when we came to this land as refugees in search of sanctuary.
Loath am I to think what might have become of my people had you not extended to us the hand of friendship. We will never forget─this I solemnly swear.
Much has changed since first you set foot on these shores. Revenant's Toll stands as a testament to that. I am sure your people will manage in your absence.
Indeed. They have built a new home for themselves, and no longer need me to shepherd them. The time has come for Gosetsu and I to return to our master─to our home.
I know how you feel. It's time I went home too...
Though our battlefields be a thousand malms apart, our purpose is one! Let all men hearken to the clarion call of freedom─of liberation─from Eorzea to the Far East, that they may rise up and cast down the curs of Garlemald!
Take care, you hear me? When all of this is over, we're going to celebrate─together─just you wait!
I should like that very much. Fare you well.
A thousand malms apart, yet united in purpose... Let us pray both our endeavors meet with success. Shall we, then?
Wait, wait, not just yet! I knew I'd forgotten something important! Lyse, could you come with me?
...Me? What, now? Um...all right, then. If you insist...
Heh heh heh... What do you think?
As you can see, I designed it to be light and loose─an outfit tailor-made to the needs of a skilled fighter like Lyse.
Your work never ceases to impress. Much more of this, and I may have to stop introducing you as the Scions' receptionist and start referring to you as our preeminent seamstress...
It's lovely, Tataru. Thank you. I feel like I could take on a legion...
I'm glad you like it. And with that, I'll delay you no longer. Safe travels!
Then onward, to Gyr Abania! Our first stop will be at Amarissaix's Spire, in the East Shroud.
All are present and accounted for. When you are ready, my friend, pray inform the officer that we wish to proceed into Gyr Abania.
Ah, the Scions of the Seventh Dawn. We were told to expect you. Shall I summon someone to escort you to the Wall?
I remember crossing the border. Standing in Gyr Abania once more.Me and my fellow Scions...the Warrior of Light among us.
Behind us, Baelsar's Wall, cutting the land in two.Freedom on one side, tyranny on the other.
Tyranny...and the promise of a new beginning.But one that could only be bought with flames and blood.
Greetings, Scions. On behalf of the Eorzean Alliance, I welcome you to Castrum Oriens.
Thank you, General. We were relieved to hear that your forces secured the Wall without incident. Have the imperials made any attempt to retake the castrum since then?
None. Save for a few skirmishes between our scouts and their patrols, we've had barely any contact with them. But we all know it's only a matter of time before things escalate.
As if attacking Baelsar's Wall weren't enough, Ilberd summoned a primal right on their doorstep─and Garlemald is not like to let such shows of defiance go unanswered.
'Twas a declaration of war, even if it was not Ilberd's to make. And now we are bound by it, for weal or for woe.The Scions stand ready to serve, General. What would you ask of us?
As stated in my message, the Alliance will not proceed without the support and cooperation of the Ala Mhigan people. We would have you serve as our emissaries and make contact with the Resistance.
Consider it done, General. We won't let you down, I swear.
Then I'll leave you to it. Godsspeed!
Hah! Of all the castra in all the world, you walk into mine.
Master Garlond! What brings you here?
A certain missing Allagan weapon and draconic primal. Omega and─Shinryu, I think the shinobi called it? Anyway, we've been studying their trail of destruction, hoping it might lead us somewhere─which it has singularly failed to do.
Then 'tis like Omega fell to earth in occupied territory...meaning it may already be in imperial hands.
Even so, it bears repeating that we engaged the stasis systems. Assuming the command was received and executed successfully, the weapon will be of no use to them. Assuming. We should hurry up and find it, regardless.
All the more reason to reach out to the Resistance. If we want to press on into Gyr Abania, we'll need their blessing.
Everyone's counting on us. Let's not waste any more time talking!
As you've probably heard, there are plenty of factions in the Resistance, so I'm taking us to see the one with the most influence.
Their headquarters are located in a place called Rhalgr's Reach─an old temple, to the east of here, across the Velodyna River.
I learned a route that should allow us to avoid imperial patrols. Stick with me and we'll be there before you know it!
Still with me? Good. From here, we'll head northeast towards the river. The water's not too deep, so we won't have to swim.
I don't see any soldiers. Good. Let's cross.
You're wondering about the tower to the south?
It's part of Castellum Velodyna. That's what the imperials decided to call the old bridge after they fortified it.
I call it a great big eyesore. Honestly, you can see that rotten banner from absolutely malms away. <sigh> They never miss a chance to rub our noses in it, do they... Come on, we should keep moving.
We're here. On the other side of this pass is Rhalgr's Reach.
So you say, but all I see are rocks. I presume there is some sort of trick to this?
...Indeed. A glamour.
Good eye, Y'shtola!
I take it they have a talented mage in their ranks─or mayhap an artificer trained in the modification of glamour prisms...?
Something like that. The important thing is that it fools the Garleans.
Oh, before we go in─I don't know if Tataru told you, but my friend Naago, the messenger who came to the Rising Stones, is a member of this faction.
So they know us, and they shouldn't attack us on sight. That said, they can be a bit jumpy, so let me lead the way, and, uh...don't go reaching for your weapons or anything.
And with a sprinkle of demasking dust, all is laid bare!
I remember the old stories.How the breaker of worlds came down from on high and cleft the earth with a single blow.
Rhalgr's Reach. A holy place, and a fitting home for the Resistance.For the brave and the true, the loyal sons and daughters of Ala Mhigo.
They were waiting for us there. Men and women whose souls still cried out for what was lost.For what could be ours again.
