Ah. As simple as that. But of course. You are the eikon-slayer. Such certainty is to be expected.
But have I not already bound it with Omega's restraints? And does not the Seventh Umbral Calamity stand as a testament to the fallibility of such devices? Oh, how quickly we forget.
Hm. You will not indulge me even with a simple reply, then? No. You think only of the fight to come. How alike we are.
A pity. There is another alternative. Or there would be...had you only mastered your abilities.
I speak of the Echo, of course. Does it merely render you immune to eikonic influence? Or is it rather that your influence is far greater than theirs? Granted, these implications are of no moment to a savage, who thinks only of killing the beast before him...
But when I read van Baelsar's reports, I immediately saw the boundless potential of the Echo. I saw how it could be instrumental in binding an eikon to one's will. Hence my research and the Resonant─and oh so much more!
All eikons must be exterminated, without exception. Such was the imperial mandate issued by my great-grandfather after he saw firsthand the destruction wrought by one such being. They are a blight upon this star, he felt, and so he began his great and just crusade.
Pah! 'Twas not justice which spurred his campaign, but fear! Fear of the eikons, fear of their power. Cowardice made them march forth to battle. Pathetic!
Man should fight for the joy of it. To live, to eat, to breed─lesser beasts snap and howl at one another for this. Only man has the wisdom and the clarity to embrace violence for its own sake.
For we who are born into this merciless, meaningless world, have but one candle of life to burn.
I know you understand this. You and I are one and the same.Together, we could while away the quiet hours, as friend and confidant...if you will accept me.
Heh heh...are we to embrace and let bygones be bygones? Do our deeds weigh so little that you would cast all aside? Come. 'Twas plain from the first how this would end.
Heh heh...and yet, in doing so, you prove me right. We are warriors. 'Twas plain from the first how this would end.
You live for these moments─when all hangs in the balance...when the difference between life and death is but a single stroke.
I live for them too! This is who we are, my friend! This is all we are!Ala Mhigo and Doma and Garlemald be damned!
We tower above the gods! You by your gift, I by my might!
And before the Resonant the gods shall be made to kneel!
An ending to mark a new beginning!
The powers of the gods are mine to command!
The heavens are too small a field for our dance.Let us transcend this mortal coil!
This day we shall write a new legend, my friend!This battle shall echo in eternity!
Are you all right!?
Zenos!
Hah...hah...hah... The hunter has indeed become the hunted.
And yet...there is only joy. Transcendent joy that I have never known.How invigorating, how...pure, this feeling.
Is that what this was all about? All the meaningless death and destruction?So you could feel something!?
Meaningless? Men die that others may live.Those who survive are stronger for it.
Not that you could ever understand. To have stood upon this great stage of fools...to have played my part to perfection...
Oh, this...this moment...let it be enshrined in eternity. My heart...beating out of time... So clear, so vivid, so real... So real.
Coward!
Stop!
Farewell, my first friend. My enemy.
Where is he?
He's dead. By his own hand.
Then justice has been done.
No...there's no justice in that...in that rabid animal's end.
Liberty or death. That so many should be forced to take up this creed to defeat such madness...
We won. Forget him. The living have need of us now.
Stand tall, Lyse! Now is the time to raise a cheer for all who fought for freedom! A cheer loud enough to carry to the highest heavens!
...You're right.
Thank you. Without you... Well...you know.
So let's do it together. For Ala Mhigo!
O come ye wayward brother,Bereft of hearth and home,
Beyond yon burning star there liesA haven for the bold.
Raise up your hands and voices,Let fill your hearts with pride,
Above the churning waters weStand strong and unified.
In crimson it began, and in crimson it ended.And then...and then we were free.
But what is freedom, really?
We may be free to live, to love, to grow old. To have dreams and desires, and to strive for them.
But in the end, we're defined by the legacy our forefathers bequeath to us.
Even Zenos was once a baby in the cradle, innocent and pure.He was made into a creature that lived only for death, not born one.
Twenty years of imperial rule have left Ala Mhigo torn and bleeding.
It won't be easy to heal a generation's worth of wounds, to bridge the gap.But I won't give up, Papalymo. I won't.
Because I remember the price of freedom.
I remember the smoke and the ashes and the blood. I remember the screams...and the silence.
And I'll do whatever it takes to honor their sacrifice. To build a home for us all. I promise you.
This is the end.
The end of the imperial province of Ala Mhigo, and the rebirth of Ala Mhigo the free nation. Long may she endure.
Well, well, well, what a fine mess we've made.
All but spent feeding that primal, eh? Well, you won't be making any mischief with that amount of aether.
Still...better safe than sorry.
There. There ends your hateful legacy.
...It's over.
My condolences for your loss. A father should not outlive his son.
...What nonsense.
You do not mourn his loss? ...You surprise me, Your Radiance. He was your son and heir...and an irreplaceable test subject.
I know what he was. Monsters are not made for thrones.
Nor are stars made to sustain false gods who sup on their very essence. Eikons summoned by desperate savages who hearken to the whispers of shadowless charlatans.
Should you raise a hand against my black-robed brethren, I will not stop you. Our desires are one and the same. Preservation. Restoration.
Compression. Resurrection. All is in service to your “one true god.” And when the sundered shards are made whole, will there be a place for us mere mortals?
Doubt my claims and question my motives if you will, Your Radiance. You will come to trust me in time. Until then, mayhap you will find this...reassuring.
How...how dare you...
We did it. We liberated Ala Mhigo. I don't know what to say... I don't even know how to feel about it all...
Relief, I suppose. Pride...and hope, too. We did it, Father. Yda. Papalymo. Conrad, Meffrid... Minfilia... We really did it...
Hey, don't feel like you have to stand here listening to me mumble. Everyone else will want to talk to you.
You beat him, after all. You're the real hero of this story. So run along and take your plaudits!
After all we have been through, I really should know better than to worry, but─as ever─the relief I felt upon finding you hale and whole in the Royal Menagerie well-nigh reduced me to tears...
“The Warrior of Light,” victorious again... Hm. I should be surprised if some small part of you had not come to resent the title and the responsibilities which accompany it. You must forgive us if we call you “hero” when you accomplish heroic feats...
But as the Warrior of Light goes, so goes the world. You should take pride in the good you have done, and in the good you have inspired others to do.
You are a natural-born leader of men, Forename. All these people weren't just following their commanders─they were following you.
And you led them to victory. To freedom! ...Alas, not everyone could see the journey through to its end. But history shall remember them, and the glorious future they made possible.
Can you believe it? We won! We beat the bastards!Ala Mhigo! Ala Mhigo!
Heh heh... Sorry, got a bit carried away there, didn't I? It's hard not to, you know?
We owe it to the friends we buried to shout and scream and cheer with all our hearts. I want them to know it wasn't for nothing─that it's finally over, and they can rest in peace.
You...you hear that lads? <sniffle> We'll be all right! We'll...we'll be... <sniffle> Oh bugger, not again...
I'm so...I'm so bleedin' happy, I could cry! <sniffle>
The hero of the hour! I suppose we'll have to add “liberator” to your titles.
With their commander fallen, the remainder of the XIIth chose to surrender to our forces. After twenty long years, it's official: the occupation is ended.
But now the hard work starts. Though the people have had their fill of kings, there is no clear consensus on what sort of government they would prefer instead.
Indeed, Father. Momentous as this achievement may be, the road which lies before us is no less uncertain than the one we have walked.
Aye, aye. Yet if we can overcome two decades of oppression, I've no doubt we can find a way forward. Thank you, Forename, for helping to make this dream a reality.
For you to best Zenos, even after he had harnessed the power of a primal, is a testament to your ever-growing strength.
Not bitter to have had your vengeance stolen from you by another?
There is some small regret, perhaps, but that is outweighed by the satisfaction I find in his death. I commend you, Forename.
As should we all. Zenos was a monster and a tyrant─the man who killed my father and countless other of my countrymen. The world is a better place without him in it.
I should also praise Master Alphinaud for his foresight and restraint. Had he not intervened, I might never have had the pleasure of being reunited with Hakuro and his Lupin brothers!
'Twas a timely intervention, aye. Full glad am I not to have been burdened with the guilt of killing my lord Hien's most trusted allies.
Hah! Indeed, my friend. Indeed.
Finished your rounds? Great. In that case, I'd like you to come with me. Back to Rhalgr's Reach.
Not for a rematch or anything, sadly. I want to call all the Scions together. I'll explain later.
I...I don't even know where to begin...
We've been through a lot together, haven't we? I can't thank you enough.
There's something I need to say to you all. That is, if you have a moment...?
Good, you're all here. Good, good...
“Thank you” doesn't really suffice, does it? I'm grateful...truly grateful, from the bottom of my heart.
But I know you didn't fight so hard just to hear me or anyone else say that. You fought because you wanted to help─because you believed it was right. Because you're Scions.
Now, I'm obviously a Scion, but as Conrad left me in charge of things here,I also have responsibilities to Ala Mhigo...
When I put it like that, though...I realized I couldn't even pretend to be impartial anymore. So it seemed best to make it official.
As long as I serve Ala Mhigo, I can't be a Scion. It might be selfish and shortsighted...but that's my decision.
Am I to understand that you summoned us all─some of us still nursing wounds─to hear this?
Oh! I-I...I didn─ Um...
Hahaha! Forgive me, Lyse! 'Twas but a jest.
But this I say with the utmost sincerity: Scion or no, we are comrades.Now and ever after.
Is that not so?
There you have it. Come what may, you may count on us in your hour of need. We shall never refuse you.
Y'shtola... Oh gods, I swore I wouldn't cry...
Come back here, you slippery little devil! <grumble>To think fishing could be so difficult!
What greater proof of a man's lingering mortality than an empty belly.A fate worse than death.
Fie on it. To have arrived at the appointed place and time, only to survive by mere force of habit. Truly, the kami are not finished with us yet.
O capricious fortune! How you test me with this wretched soul...
...Hm. This is indeed the work of either Shinryu or Omega.
...And since there is undeniably something down there radiating a massive amount of energy...which cannot very well be the late viceroy's lapdragon... Yes, I think we have our suspect.
Well. This is a mess of our own making, so it falls to us to clean it up. It won't be easy...but is it ever?
