A heretofore unseen beast. 'Twas ripe for the slaying.
Poor sport, alas. Unfit to temper my blade.
Oh, for the love of─ You cannot still be on about a rematch!
That is and has ever been my sole concern.
You, on the other hand, are fixated on a different quarry.
Your passion pales before mine, yet neither hate nor despair seem sufficient to recapture your misdirected bloodlust.
So I hone my blade, and I wait.
That's it? That's all you care about?
Garlemald is in ruins. Our homeland─the nation you rule!─is as good as gone.
Along with so many of its people.
Not just soldiers like us! Not only those who fought and killed for power and duty. Innocent civilians...
Murdered by their own flesh and blood. Lost and confused as they breathed their last.
While we who survived with our lives and minds intact were left to freeze to death!
The Eorzeans tell me all this was your doing. You slaughtered your countrymen. You did. For what?
For nothing, in the end. So much wasted effort.
You...
You bastard!
For your own sake, Jullus, you must control your anger!
It will serve no one should it consume you and see you transformed.
Would you be “happier” had I a “good reason”?
What?
If my motives met with your approval, would you no longer resent the outcome?
If so, then perhaps a beast's skin would suit you better.
Duty...honor...morality...all constructs of convenience, when put to proof.
Surely the war taught you how easily power becomes the tool of the self-righteous?
How the people's “justice” was merely a means to their ends?
Yet you would ask me why.
Ask any creature of this star and those above for answers, and they will tell you what suits their fancy.
And they would be right to do so. What meaning there is to be found in the petty vicissitudes of your existence must be gleaned by you and you alone.
Should you seek it in battle─in the fruitless pursuit of my demise─then come. Assume your rightful place as a notch on my blade.
You are a blight on the Garlean race, and there would be no more satisfying way to expunge it than by beating you to death.
But I will not be party to another tragedy. I refuse to lose anyone else because of you.
So go! Go, and may we never suffer your madness again.
Zenos!
Perhaps you've found meaning in living this way─I cannot deny you've found strength.
Yet if you only pursue your hedonistic pleasures, and pay no heed to the plight of others, then no one will give you the time of day.
You will never get what you want─not even the battle you pine for so dearly.
You'll be alone for an eternity, and you'll deserve every agonizing second of it.
We are ready to depart. The refugee ships will be leaving shortly, but I've asked mine to remain for the time being.
There's room enough for you to join me on it, if you wish.
Do contain your surprise. I needn't agree with the Scions' methods or intentions to acknowledge that their deeds are deserving of gratitude.
We appreciate the offer, but might I ask why you are delaying your departure? I presume it is not solely for our benefit.
I must visit Garlemald ere we return to Sharlayan. Having caused such an uproar, 'tis only meet that I explain myself to the Ilsabard contingent.
Allow us to accompany you, then. We should be glad to facilitate, given our familiarity with all concerned.
If you would like to join as well, Jullus, we can speak of recent events on the way.
He'll be after your seat on the Forum next.
This is the contingent's base of operations, I take it?
At the very least, I am glad our own members are accounted for.
It's been a while since last we spoke. For some time, I was...not myself.
Lucia and the others told me what happened that night...and about the events that took place while I was receiving treatment.
It was only then that I realized the lengths you and yours go to... I know I might never be able to repay you, but I'll be damned if I don't try.
And most of all... I want to thank you. All of you. For everything you've done and continue to do for the sake of my people.
We couldn't save them all, but if we'd arrived any later, it would've been a massacre.
Things were looking bleak until you and the Ist turned up.
Though there'll be time later to discuss your journey to the First, there is one thing I must ask.
Did you perchance speak with our friends in the Crystarium?
Lyna and Beq Lugg both warn me against overexerting myself?
Strange that they would express such similar sentiments─identical, in fact─but their advice is duly noted.
That the Final Days should manifest here too, after everything these people have suffered, is a fate cruel beyond words.
Nevertheless, with allies old and new at our side, there is yet reason to be hopeful.
To see Zenos standing there, so uncaring and unrepentant. Gods, I don't know what came over me.
I just blurted out the first thing that came to mind. But looking back on it...I stand by those words.
I would say I hope they won't incite him to further villainy, but to be honest, I doubt he even remembers what I said.
Anyway, enough about all that. It's good to see you again!
We still need to quiz you about your time on the First, if we ever get more than a moment's respite.
We still need to quiz you about your time on the First, if we ever get more than a moment's respite.
No major injuries then. Good.
I briefed the recovered soldiers and sent them on their way as quickly as I could, but nevertheless feared they would not make it in time.
The additional support was invaluable. Your men saved more than a few lives.
...Though not all, I regret to say.
I take it that I am addressing Lucia Junius? I am the Forum's envoy, Fourchenault Leveilleur.
And you are owed an explanation for these most dire developments.
Another trial wrought by the Final Days... I was beginning to suspect as much.
You doubtless feel some consternation having been forced to abandon your original plan─but trust me when I say you were right to send the refugees elsewhere.
Beasts have been sighted within the capital. Perhaps it was a stroke of grim fortune that the population was decimated beforehand, as they've yet to appear in any great number, but in time...
In any case, Maxima leads the remainder of the contingent in an effort to cull the creatures and evacuate the populace as we speak.
Once the airships have taken to the skies, I pray your men can be persuaded to join him.
You'll permit us to retain our weapons?
I wouldn't have sent you after the Scions were I expecting you to stab them in the back.
And I, for one, would not consider past transgressions more relevant than future contributions.
Regardless of the circumstances that saw us at odds before, we need men of courage now. More than ever.
We swore to defend Garlemald. And so we shall.
It seems you have everything under control. You will excuse me, then, for mine own duties await.
A moment, Master Fourchenault.
You did desire to express your appreciation for services rendered, did you not?
I did... Though if you intend to again ask that Sharlayan alter its course, you will find my gratitude insufficient.
'Tis nothing so onerous.
I wish to hear the details of this grand endeavor of yours.
Do you swear to listen and to learn, and not to embark upon some scheme to impede us?
I swear.
...Hmph. Any other I would doubt, but you I trust to keep your word. For not once have you broken it.
Very well. I will request that the Forum make you privy to our plans. You may await our summons at the Baldesion Annex─assuming the decision is in your favor. Does that suffice?
It does. You have my thanks.
Excellent! You can regale us with tales of your most recent sojourn to the First while we wait.
Did you...hear something just now?
Pudding... Puuuddiiing...
Where, oh where, is this star's blasted pudding!?
Um...?
Dawn may banish even the darkest night...
And to this bitter clime bring warmth and comfort.
'Tis heartening to see such an assembly upon my return. I thought often of you whilst I looked down upon our star's brilliance from the moon above.
Yes, but what are you doing here? And dressed like that! Aren't you cold?
Verily. I fear for my health should I proceed to expound upon our purpose ere I procure more suitable garments...
Then allow me to summarize─we're here because none of you lot are up there! Nor has anyone deigned to send word about any changes in the plans!
It's rude, is what it is. Least that's what I thought at first, but then folks got to wondering if you weren't in a spot of bother, so we decided to take matters into our own hands. Come down here and help, if our help be needed.
So she says, but it's also something of a convenient excuse to visit Etheirys. Urianger made it sound absolutely marvelous. More so before the impending doom, but still.
And it's not like there will ever be a better time! What with the aforementioned doom.
Marvelous, they say, yet not an onze of pudding to be found! I must suffer Urianger's inferior works no more...
Hey! Maybe consider the plight of present company before you go blathering on about pudding and doom?
As I was saying─should you require any assistance with...whatever, we are at your disposal.
We were born from Hydaelyn's love for the lives of this star, so naturally we would much prefer to see them continue. Twiddling our thumbs up on the moon is hardly conducive to that, though, is it?
Aye, not when you've all got such precious thoughts, and feelings, and hopes for the future, deserving of more active preservation. Speaking to Urianger made us realize that while we've carried out our duties to the letter, we've failed to fulfill them in spirit.
From there it was just a hop, skip, and a jump towards resolving to do better! So please, show us how. Help us help you!
Forgive me, but are they...?
Thy distant collaborators, indeed.
Hail fellow well met! You'd be a member of the Forum, would you? It's an honor and a pleasure to meet you at last.
I'm Livingway, Hydaelyn's right paw. That last bit is very important─as am I, if I may humbly say so myself.
I, er...bid you welcome to our star, Livingway. On behalf of the Forum, I thank you for traveling such a distance to meet us.
As you have surmised, preparations for the exodus have not proceeded as smoothly as we had hoped. I should be happy to personally escort you to our headquarters in Sharlayan, where you may advise us as you deem fit.
'Twas with reluctance that I set aside the great work of readying the moon for habitation. Be assured that I did so only after the Loporrits made plain their earnest desire to come hither, and I myself felt a growing certainty that their contributions here would prove invaluable.
'Tis trite, perhaps, but...I followed my heart.
For a time, at least. Nevertheless, 'twas worth the journey to find present company well.
I am no esteemed philosopher of eld. Nevertheless, 'tis my hope that what little knowledge I shared shall serve them well, and perchance help save us all.
Wilt thou attend us at the Forum, and lend thine own wisdom?
If that's all quite settled, can we start moving before Urianger catches his death? Even I'm freezing out here.
Oh, I daresay you'll warm up quickly once you're aboard the airship, sat shoulder to shoulder with our fur-covered friends.
I daresay Master Fourchenault was as nonplussed as we to learn the identity of Hydaelyn's lunar custodians. As he will soon discover, they have much and more to offer the Forum.
Might I suggest we return to the annex forthwith?
We may yet have time to discuss thy recent adventures ere we are summoned to the Rostra.
Not that I'm complaining, Urianger, but I wasn't expecting to see you quite so soon.
Nor I thee. In extolling the virtues of Etheirys, I did inadvertently awaken in the Loporrits a desire to avert our beloved star's demise.
Krile tells us you have obtained new knowledge that may aid us in our ongoing efforts.
I've news to share regarding our study of the aetherial sea, but your findings are certain to be of greater interest, and so I would rather hear them first.
To what revelations did Hydaelyn's Elpis flower lead?
Then this “dynamis” is what drives the Final Days...
If it and akasa are one and the same, this all but proves Nidhana's theory.
Were an entity, through sheer force of emotion, to channel this vast, dormant reservoir into a raging river...its power might surpass even that of aether.
But if our star is so replete with aether, said entity would need to be outside its influence to effectively manipulate the dynamis of the great expanse.
Meteion...
Or rather, the sorrow and suffering of fallen civilizations that she has been hoarding for millennia...
Untold anguish and fear and hatred, drawn from every corner of the universe... All for a single purpose: the destruction of Etheirys.
Then our foe is no longer some unknowable calamity.
We have but one aim─to defeat Meteion.
You make it sound so simple...but you're not wrong.
Vanquish Meteion and we deliver the world from the Final Days. But to even attempt it, there are two conditions.
First, we must determine her location.
Before Meteion escaped, an enchantment was placed upon her by Venat. The woman who would become Hydaelyn.
The implications of temporal magicks are not entirely understood, and so we cannot assume that our Hydaelyn and the Venat you met in Elpis are one and the same. Nevertheless, due to Her intrinsic qualities as an all-powerful being, I'd wager that Hydaelyn possesses the knowledge we seek.
Whether She would share that knowledge with us, however, remains to be seen.
After all, She intends for us to flee Etheirys, not to stay.
Do you suppose She has abandoned Her pursuit of Meteion?
That's my impression, too. Otherwise, She wouldn't have used me as a conduit for Her will, or provided clues such as the Elpis flower.
Aye, though not for lack of trying on Hydaelyn's part. Surely, that's why She used me as a conduit for Her will, and provided clues such as the Elpis flower.
I believe She has been waiting...
...For mankind's answer to Hermes's question.
So, what's the second condition?
We must find a means to reach Meteion.
Naturally, our chosen method will depend entirely upon wheresoever she has made her nest.
Then communing with Hydaelyn must by necessity come first.
Did you and Master Matoya have any luck with your investigation into the aetherial sea?
Sadly not. Though we enlisted the help of Arenvald and other Echo-blessed allies, we couldn't detect so much as a whisper from Hydaelyn, even from within the Antitower.
Master Matoya is of the opinion that in the years since abandoning it, the Forum has found some other method of receiving instructions from Hydaelyn.
If so, it would most likely be some form of apparatus for observing the aetherial sea, built closer to home.
Sorry to interrupt, we've just received word from the Forum.
Your presence is required in the Rostra, where they intend to discuss the great exodus.
Then Father was able to persuade them!
They're finally taking us seriously. Let's hear what they have to say.
Well, that was a much quicker response than I was expecting. Nice to know our efforts on the Magna Glacies didn't go unnoticed.
After sending G'raha and Estinien back to Garlemald, I stayed in Locus Amoenus for a time. Being an imperial province, it was already in turmoil before the onset of the Final Days.
You wouldn't believe the difficulties we had overseeing the evacuation of the villages we visited. I have faith the detachment we left behind will continue our work and shepherd the people to safety. To what safety can be found in a world coming to an end.
After you left for Garlemald, I went to Labyrinthos and tried to reach Hydaelyn using the Elpis flowers.
Alas, my attempts were in vain. I can only assume that She spent a vast amount of Her power in the confrontation with Fandaniel and is presently unable to communicate.
Indeed, as Her presence left my body, I could feel how faint it had grown...
Master Matoya has suspected for some time that the Forum has been constructing a new facility for the purpose of surveying the aetherial sea.
Of course, as the custodian of the Antitower, which would presumably be rendered obsolete as a result, she has a few things to say about that. Nothing that should be repeated in polite company, you understand.
'Twas Hydaelyn's commandment that in the event Zodiark should perish, the Loporrits were to deliver the people of Etheirys from harm.
Though that be the limit of their duties, they possess knowledge unparalleled of the great expanse and the means of its traversal.
Should they be persuaded to assist in our efforts to reach Meteion, we would do well to heed their counsel.
To think the Crystal Tower of the First is capable of such feats as sending one's soul into the distant past...
The events you witnessed─and helped shape─may yet hold the key to forestalling the Final Days.
I'm reminded of dear friends in a future I unmade. Whose selfless efforts saw the Eighth Umbral Calamity averted...in this timeline, at least. Too much has been sacrificed for us to abandon Etheirys now.
At first, I wasn't sure what to make of Hermes and his motives.
But it's like we discussed at the Great Work. When faced with the harsh realities of life, some seek the release of death. Others grow defiant. They fight.
Either way, it is our right to choose.
I hope you don't mind me staying behind while you attend your big meeting.
The Rostra reminds me a bit too much of the Supremely Scary Tribunal in Ishgard. You'll forgive me if I keep my distance...
Though we know not what information─if any─they intend to reveal, there's only one way to find out. To the Rostra!
