Tuliyollal's mightiest warrior... Yet wisest you are not. You who spurned your retainer's aid when battling your betters.
To prove oneself superior to blessed siblings by surpassing the shade of Gulool Ja Ja himself─that is the final feat.
The First Promise fought alone and fell short...but that is now the least of his concerns.
You could have let your foolishness end with your failure. But instead you attempted to harm an anointed elector.
Zoraal Ja. As of this moment, you are no longer a claimant. I disqualify you from the rite of succession. Begone from my sight.
This isn't over yet. I will be the one to reach the golden city.
When Zoraal Ja was defeated, he tried to take the keystone by force. But he was thwarted by Father's shade.
My dearest child. Welcome home.
This feat was made for you─only blessed siblings could hope to defeat Gulool Ja Ja.
But ere we begin, I would see the fruits of your triumphs. Come, show me your tablets.
What is this? Where are your keystones?
Explain yourself, boy!
No matter. Not all can be expected to go to plan. What keystones you lack...
...you can easily take.
I...I tried. B-But I couldn't─I cannot beat her.
You mean to tell me that you, glory of Mamook─for whom all here have sacrificed─were defeated by your inferiors?
You are as useless as your siblings. A failure.
Leave and never return! You have no place here!
...Let's go, Brother.
Worthless! Pathetic! This was our chance to claim sovereignty, and he ruins it!
But...when these stragglers fail, Gulool Ja Ja will be forced to extend his rule. And in the next rite of succession, we will present a better claimant.
So come. Stand before me...and fall.
I won't do your trial.
Oh? You intend to forfeit the rite?
Papa wants his successor to intimately understand the country he loves.
Every step of my journey, I've learned something about our peoples and their cultures. I would do the same here in Mamook.
The Mamool Ja deserve nothing less. So your battle can wait.
I'm of the same mind. Father named you an elector for a reason. There must be something that he would have us learn.
Do as you will. But until you triumph over the shade, you shall proceed no further.
