And thus I am returned.
Ah, you're awake...
My apologies, I do get a little carried away with my sewing.
You seem awfully cheerful. Pleasant dream? Or are you just looking forward to the next chapter of your grand saga?
Either way, I promised to provide you with new apparel, and so I shall!
If you'll accompany me to the Diamond Forge, we can put the finishing touches on your outfit. Shall we?
Observe as the artiste refines her piece into a masterpiece!
And no napping this time! I only need a moment─you'll see!
A little more room in the shoulders...open up the cuffs...a final adjustment to the hem...
All done! Let's see how it looks on the mannequin.
Well, what do you think? Doesn't it just scream “ready for a bold new adventure”!?
I'm so glad you approve!
Oh stop—you'll make me blush!
Oh, don't be silly. Your approval is payment enough!
If you really want to thank me, though, all I ask is that you wear this on your travels!
Or at least anywhere lots of adventurers might gather, heh heh...
They'll look at you, a famous hero, and wonder, “Wherever did she purchase those stylish-yet-practical garments?”
And before you know it, hordes of new customers will be climbing over each other to place orders at Tataru Taru's Boutique!
Muahaha! I can hear it now─the merry clink-clink of gil overflowing from my coffers! Sweet music to my ears!
Ahem... Burgeoning merchant empires aside, you must be excited to start a fresh chapter of your life. New places to go, new people to meet─I often wonder how you remember all your experiences and exploits without taking at least a few notes...
Oh! Maybe you should start doing just that! You never know when some odd past detail might become relevant, or if one day you'll take a blow to the head and forget the better part of the past decade. Something to keep in mind, in any case!
As the, uh, “former” receptionist and sometimes intelligence gatherer of the Scions, allow me to offer you a word of advice...
Do not expect juicy rumors to simply fall into your lap!
Adventurers rely on gossip, and the best places to pick up information are taverns and markets.
At present, you only have a broad destination in mind. When you arrive in Thavnair, I suggest you explore your options at Mehryde's Meyhane─the finest drinking establishment in Radz-at-Han!
Charm the employees, and they'll not only point you in the direction of the local tale-tellers, but also share with you the tricks for loosening their tongues!
Now, I really must be getting back to running my boutique. Enjoy the journey, Forename, and may fair fortune find you!
