What is this Darkness, cold and all-consuming? Where am I?
I must return to my world... To my home, where my kin await...
Yes, I must return. I return. And none shall stand in my way!
Begone from my sight!
Stand aside, I beseech you.
I wish but to return home.
I wish but to return home.
Your flesh shall melt and seethe!
Ah, the Darkness! It riseth!
In endless Dark embrace your end.
Begone, contemptible Light!
All are as one in Darkness.
O stifled Darkness in moon abiding...
Coalesce and consume creation!
Coalesce and consume creation!
In my memory the stars yet shine, attending the moon...
Bright as stars in the night.
My Darkness shall devour all Light.
Your souls are mine!
In Darkness be steeped.
Her will...my will...shall not be denied.
By my power shall all know salvation!
By my power shall all know salvation!
Return to me, my beloved star!
Beyond the veil my home doth lie...
All who oppose me shall be consigned to nothingness.
To the last you would deny my heart's desire...
Oh, to look upon such splendor once more...
I shall not perish... So long as they await my return, I shall endure...
Are you all right?
Like all voidsent, Zeromus cannot be killed. Sealing it in memoria is the only way.
Ah, that it should come to this...
I failed my dear friend. Fell for the Ascians' ploy and unleashed the Darkness.
And after an eternity of waiting, I find myself on my knees...
How disappointed must you be in me. In the foolishness and futility of it all...
No... I will not let it be for naught. I will not allow you to pass. I will triumph in my crusade!
There is no triumph to be found in this madness.
Even if the veil were to be unraveled, it would not undo what Darkness has done to the world.
Nor would it bring Golbez back. From his slumber, you know there is no return.
You're weak and imperfect. You know it in your heart. In spite of this, do you truly believe that you can save everyone? Are you sure you will not fail?
I'm no better. Weak and imperfect and plagued by doubt. Which is why I need friends to walk beside me.
Light...? But how?
This is proof that I believe in others, and they in turn believe in me.
A light that illuminates the way in darkest despair.
Be it in a ruined city locked in ice or a world drowning in Light, it was with faith in one another that life endured. I see it clearly now.
You think we are capable of the same?
It won't be easy. Having lived too long as voidsent, we've forgotten how to trust.
But one thing is certain: if Zeromus succeeds and everyone dies, we'll never have the chance to try.
You asked me to join hands with you once, and I refused. I cannot take back that mistake, but I can extend to you the same offer. We can be better than we have been.
Ah!
Of course. You were the memoriate we met all those years ago...
Yes, I remember now. We hoped you would join us in our quest to end the Contramemoria.
But you rejected us outright.
It left both of us discouraged─Golbez most of all. “If we could but overcome the fear that has shaped and divided us, we could change everything.”
Even in the midst of that terrible war, he never stopped believing in others. Not even at the end...
You're Golbez now. If you would live up to his name, then you must trust in people as he did.
I cannot forgive what you have done to my sister. But she may yet be saved.
If you can help us see her safely home and protect the Source, then...
As Zero's friends, we should gladly share what knowledge we have to help you restore the void.
You truly believe the world of old can be ours again?
I do. So long as we work together.
We will disperse Zeromus's essence once more. The instant we do, you must call to Azdaja.
Understood!
Zero!
The suffocating Darkness... Like that of the rift...
Impenetrable... Disorienting... Untethered and drifting further away...
Be strong, Zero! Don't give up!
Hold fast to yourself! Look to the Light within!
Your place isn't alone in the Dark, Zero. Not anymore!
Of course.
You needn't worry about me.
With this power from beyond the rift, I can do it. I can save everyone!
Golbez! If you would make amends, then lend me your strength!
Azdaja!
Hear my voice...and return to me!
Oh, Vrtra... There thou art...
I am coming, Brother... I am coming...
Have care! Zeromus makes to resurrect!
Not if I have anything to say about it!
No more, fiend!
You're safe now, Azdaja. You're safe.
To my sister, I shall offer up the eye in this vessel.
We dragons bring forth progeny with our very life force. That which my eye harbors should be enough to grant her corporeal form.
Of course, this means I shall no longer have control over this vessel. I must ask you escort Azdaja to the surface in my stead.
We came to bring her home, and we'll do just that. You have my word.
Thank you.
At long last, we shall be together again.
Where are you going?
Our world may yet be restored. I thought it an impossible dream once, but having witnessed your miracles, I cannot help but believe.
Nevertheless, I am the villain who wrought this tragedy. And in my misguided crusade, I compounded my sins.
My place is not at your side.
Regardless of how you may feel, by lending me your strength, you've made amends.
You've earned a new beginning.
It's up to you what we become to one another.
What we couldn't do yesterday, we might still do today. Working together.
And should we want for strength, we need only rally more like-minded souls to our cause.
So let's take the first step. The two of us.
Never again shall we be parted, Sister. Never again.
That Azdaja lives is a miracle made possible by the unique nature of the void...
...Ah, yes. The aether transmitters, I shall leave with Zero. They will be of more use in the Thirteenth than in the Source.
I've already seen Varshahn safely to Vrtra. Many would be heartbroken if their “little brother” failed to return home.
Never did I imagine that the Light I bore could bring about such change.
As our domains are shaped by our innermost desires, perhaps this is a reflection of the hope that had quickened in my heart.
You came to the Thirteenth to rescue Azdaja and protect your world. Our meeting was happenstance, and our association one of mutual convenience.
Yet you and yours always treated me with kindness. As a friend. And through your friendship, I've found a new beginning.
I'm forever in your debt.
It should come as no surprise that Golbez has a means to travel between the moon and the star, of which we may avail ourselves shortly.
Words cannot well express my relief that we could rescue my sister, nor my gratitude to all of you.
What of him? Golbez.
He felt it would be inappropriate for him to be present at your reunion with Azdaja, and chose to remain down in the chasm.
If you wish to hear an apology, however, I should be glad to drag him here.
Nay, that shall not be necessary. By his deeds hath he demonstrated his contrition.
So, what will you do now?
I've learned much journeying together with you. Experienced things I could never have experienced alone.
Together with Golbez, I hope to do the same as we labor to restore the Thirteenth.
Then I suppose it's farewell for now.
Be sure to share with Golbez what you've learned of the Source and its reflections, as well as the true nature of Light and Dark.
He is as resourceful as he is determined, and will surely make the very most of the insights.
Indeed. Once we've gained a better understanding of the situation, I hope we can rely on your counsel.
But of course. I too shall continue probing new possibilities, the better to be of aid when the time comes.
Ah, speaking of which...
From ocean rise and cloudbank form,From mountain spring and rainfall storm,From river flow and life be born...
Come forth, my servant!
I revised the incantation. Which is not to say you know how it went before...
Are we clear?
Nidhana provided me with spare warding scales, which apparently provide greater protection than before.
This should keep the familiar safe. So long as you give the nixie aether from time to time, it will persist and serve as a beacon for us to find you.
Already we find ourselves with a new ally. Thank you.
When you have the chance, please thank everyone for me.
Those in Radz-at-Han, Garlemald, Sharlayan...
...the First, and on the moon.
A lengthy list.
A gift for Ryne, in return for the Light she helped me harness. It's the memoria holding Zeromus.
If used to augment Darkness in the First, it may help to create balance between our worlds.
An excellent idea.
Similarly, why not entrust the archfiends' memoria to Zero?
In that case, I shall pass them on to Golbez. To inspire and admonish him in equal measure.
You will, I'm sure. Just don't try to forcibly summon me. I won't come.
Come what may, we will see it restored. And should we need a helping hand, I hope we can count on you once more.
Sad though it is to say farewell, 'tis past time we returned home. Pray climb upon my back.
Till we meet again.
No matter where we are or how much time passes, our bond will endure. This I believe.
We have awaited your return with bated breath. As should be apparent, naught of note occurred in your absence.
Urianger and the Loporrits are to be commended for ensuring that the seal held fast.
A pity there was no need to employ our combat supporters... Still, everyone is safe, and that's all that matters.
To think this all began with a simple treasure hunt. Gods, I could sleep for a week...
Oh, welcome back, everyone! While you were away, a rent in the fabric of reality suddenly appeared! Through it, we could observe you locked in furious battle with Zeromus!
By the time it closed up, we had seen your victory─well done, by the way─but we still couldn't breathe easy until we knew for certain you were safe and sound. And here you are, thank heavens!
Dare I hope Azdaja is safe too? And Zero?
In a word, yes.
Though we could not return Azdaja to her original form, Vrtra granted her a new vessel using one of his eyes. Her circumstances are unique, but it nevertheless gives me hope that there may be a way to save other voidsent.
As for Zero, she has chosen to remain in her world, and do what she can to restore it.
Ah, so the light of hope shines again amidst the darkness!
Perhaps our research into environments capable of supporting life would be of use in the Thirteenth.
Oho, now there's a thought!
A day may come when the people of the Source and the Thirteenth work hand in hand. In anticipation of this, we must accumulate even more useful technology!
Ah, but don't let us detain you with our cavalcade of brilliant ideas. We'll see that the gate is closed and the seal deactivated, so go home and get some rest─that includes you, Urianger!
As thou dost command. Pray convey our gratitude to the watcher for his timely assistance.
'Twould seem Vrtra is preparing to depart. Come, let us descend to the Tower of Babil.
Upon arriving in Garlemald, 'twould be meet to inform Jullus of our mission's outcome. Let us seek him out at Tertium.
Wouldn't it be grand if we could make it possible for people to spend time in the void without protective talismans...
I suppose we'll have to rename our voidsent slaughter-bots now. A shame. The name just rolls off the tongue, doesn't it? Still, it was a joy to be of aid to the people of Etheirys again!
Ah, 'tis you. What news of your mission in the void?
The fact you've come all this way can only mean there've been developments. I'm all ears.
Oh, it's you again. Is everything all right?
So you were able to rescue Azdaja... Thank the Twelve.
Channeling Light from the First was rather ingenious. It may fall short of cross-rift travel, but it's still an impressive achievement in my book.
You're too kind. Suffice it to say, though, that I don't intend to rest on these laurels. There's always more to be done.
Zero stayed in the void, did she? Well...if I had known it would come to that, I would've said a proper farewell.
Really...? I don't remember saying anything profound...
Thanks for what? I don't recall doing anything in particular for her. On the contrary, she's the one who risked life and limb.
Still...I'm glad that she got something out of her time here.
As the days roll on, things will change for the both of us.
But some things will remain as they are.
As far as I'm concerned, Zero will always be a friend and comrade. And I will never forget her.
If she's working tirelessly to restore the Thirteenth, it wouldn't do to be outdone here. When next Zero visits, we must see to it that you have a shiny new Garlemald to show her.
Indeed... And speaking of rebuilding, there's a matter I'd like to discuss with you and Alphinaud.
Word has spread of our dealings with Radz-at-Han, and people are excited by the prospect of standing on our own two feet again. Naturally, it won't be straightforward─it never is─but on the whole, I have a good feeling about things.
In other words...it may be time for us to limit our involvement, that Garleans might take the lead? I can see the sense in that.
No, no, that's not what I meant at all.
Seeing as things are going well, we want you to take a rest. A proper rest. That's what I wanted to say, on everyone's behalf.
You've done so much for us already. Toiled beside us in the cold for far longer than anyone could ask.
You've earned a reprieve a hundred times over. So go on, step away from here and head...wherever you like. But if it were me, I'd choose somewhere warm.
I was thinking of taking a break anyway...
Far be it from us to go against such a heartfelt request. Though I would be lying were I to say matters here wouldn't weigh on our minds...
We could take a leaf out of Zero's book and roam about for a while.
Maybe visit nations who share little history with Garlemald─look for opportunities to foster future relations. We might learn something of recent foreign affairs that has escaped our notice.
Hm, as an independent party, we would be well suited to the task... An excellent idea, Alisaie.
Well, that hardly sounds like a rest at all.
To us, it is the best kind of rest─stimulating and meaningful.
If it's settled, then let's return to Sharlayan and consider our options.
What about the rest of you? Do you have any plans?
We're indebted to Lord Fourchenault and his colleagues for their cooperation. 'Twould be meet to report on the outcome of our mission.
Then it seems we are all bound for Sharlayan. Upon arriving, let us seek out Atheleys at the Rostra and have her notify Father.
I've lost count of how many times I've come here, but it's apparently enough that the immigration officials no longer interrogate me. Small blessings, eh?
Without further ado, let us tend to business.
Father has many demands on his time, but I should hope he can spare us a moment...
It cannot be overstated how invaluable Lord Fourchenault's cooperation was. We must thank him profusely.
Having been away for so long, it might be nice to stay a while. If only to set Father and Mother's minds at ease.
