The crates we keep here are packed to the brim with fabrics, and it might surprise you just how heavy they can get. Do take care to lift with your legs, yes?
Thread, is it? Then you've come to the right place. We thank you for your aid.
The silk from the silkworms are both a wondrous tool and an incredible product in and of itself. To say it is precious cargo would be a gross understatement. Thus, we cannot be too careful when handling it.
If you have any crates of finished products such as carpets, clothing, and the like, pray bring them here to our primary storehouse.
A crateful of clothing, is it? I can take that off your hands. Many thanks for the delivery!
The doors of our storehouses were built to last, so I very much doubt even those fiends would be able to bring them down.
I say, you're quite the brawny one, aren't you? A good thing, that. Never know when you'll need to defend yourself in these unpredictable times.
A crateful of fabrics, is it? Exactly what I was hoping to receive. Here, let me put that away for you.
The towers now razed, it's time we plan for the road ahead. Doubtless our silks and textiles will become a cornerstone of any future economic prosperity we may see, thus must we continue to safeguard them as best we are able.
You've carried all the crates to the storehouses, you say? And so quickly, too! Why, I've never seen anyone so strong!
I and my associates will see to the rest, so please return to Djinabaha and assure him our work is proceeding apace.
To tell the truth, we're grateful for this distraction. Too many terrible happenings of late. But generous souls like yourself give me hope that we may emerge from this trial even stronger. I pray we meet again in more peaceful times.
Pack it all up, and quickly, now! We'll not let any of our precious fabrics be trampled and torn by those beasts!
Done as I asked, have you?
If Kamala is satisfied with your work, then so am I. You have done us a great favor, traveler.
I, too, have delivered the instruments and apparatus entrusted to me.
You both have my thanks. With our wares safely stored away, we'll not lose any more to those fiends.
I take it that your establishment did not escape the attack unscathed?
We did not. Thankfully, most of our workers had already left for the day. But those of us still here saw it all...
We looked to the burning skies in confusion...and then, before we could even begin to make sense of it, a hideous creature burst through the doors, shrieking...
We ran for our lives, but one of my colleagues was not so fortunate. He cried out─a scream of such agony, such terror─and in the next instant, he, too, sprouted fearsome claws...
The sight of it caused another fellow to panic, and then...
He, too, transformed...
...I'm sorry. There was something you wanted to ask?
Indeed. You knew the merchant Khalzahl, did you not? I believe he had some dealings with your establishment.
Khalzahl? I know him well. We'd arranged for his consortium to deliver a large shipment of fabrics, but in the end, we received a better offer, and had to turn him down.
I understand his business is struggling, but so is ours. Another of our most reliable trading partners agreed to transport the goods for a much smaller commission, and we'd have been fools to refuse.
I felt terrible for withdrawing the offer...but you must understand, we simply had no choice.
He tried to put on a brave face when I delivered the news, but his dejection and despair were plain as day. He said he'd discuss it with his associates, but I could tell he'd all but given up hope...
Dejection...and despair.
You remember what we saw in Vanaspati, yes? Soldiers and jungle dwellers pushed to the very brink turning into beasts one after the next...
It would seem the same phenomenon occurred here. The poor craftsmen attacked by the fiends, as well as those that witnessed it...all undergoing the change.
I suspect that everything began with Khalzahl. By all accounts, it was he who suffered from the most profound and piercing despair...
...Wait. Could that be it? That such intense emotions were what triggered his transformation?
Much remains unclear, but I believe we are drawing closer to an answer. At any rate, we must discuss our findings with the others.
Can the despair in a man's own heart consign him to such a terrible fate...?
We were to reconvene with the others in front of Meghaduta, were we not? That should be just outside.
With any luck, they will have already returned from their own investigations.
My friend, we must take our leave. I pray that your establishment is spared further tragedy. But remember: your lives are far more precious than any wares. If you are ordered to flee, do so without hesitation.
Indeed... I thank you for your concern, and pray you two take care as well.
