Aye, this is indeed the Giantsgall Grounds, and I am Zeynuha. Is there something you require?
Giantsgall for the alchemists, you say? But of course they shall have it!
They labor tirelessly to deal with the tower, and 'tis the least we can do to provide them with the materials they need.
Here you are─a sack of the purest giantsgall. We always set some aside for our alchemist friends.
When you deliver it, let the good folk of the Great Work know that we're grateful for their efforts. If they need more, they need but ask.
Payment? You needn't worry─the satrap will see us compensated. But even if he did not, we wouldn't hesitate to provide what we can. We're in this fight together, after all.
Ah, welcome back, Forename. Dare I hope you have the giantsgall?
Oh my, such fine specimens! Thank you so much for bringing these!
We now have everything we need to make our next prototype─one that should be capable of passing our most rigorous tests.
When it is ready, it will be time for the true test, so please take your ease while you can!
I see our taskmasters have allowed you a moment's respite as well.
You have to hand it to these alchemists─they are determined to see this endeavor of theirs succeed.
I've never been one for blind optimism, but I sincerely get the sense they're close to a breakthrough.
They had better be, or all this effort was for naught...
The peoples of Eorzea, of the Far East, of Thavnair... Children of this star united in common cause against a dire threat.
Yet ere they succumbed to suicidal madness, were not the Telophoroi born of Her body, as were we?
They who cling to life and the promise of the morrow's dawn, 'gainst they who desire death and an ending of their own orchestration.
The victors of this war alone will hold the right to answer the question of existence. Of its meaning, and its worth.
Poetic and ominous to a fault. That said, if it's an existential debate in nature, then our arguments might not be as persuasive as you'd think.
Fandaniel wants to die, and take everyone with him in an orgy of pain and suffering. An utterly vile and unforgivable idea.
And yet, when spat upon by fate and wailing in the deepest pit of despair, who among us can say they have not entertained similar thoughts?
There are nights black as pitch. Bereft of hope. When no words of comfort can reach you, and it's all you can do to grit your teeth and choke back the bile.
The more you see and suffer life's injustices, the more difficult they become to bear.
Vengeance is nurtured in similar soil. Though your anger has a broader focus, the sentiment is much the same: a fervent desire to destroy others; to see them drown in torment, as you have.
That about sums it up. The will to endure is not always as strong as the urge to burn it all down and salt the earth, survival be damned. It's a struggle─often close and brutal.
Indeed... Well. I, for one, shall pray survival proveth more appealing in the end.
As will I. Besides, our chances are much improved when we've the company of others committed to the cause of life. Our vengeful dragoon here is proof of that.
What is it? What did you see?
Fandaniel? Are you sure? If he knows we've been working on a countermeasure...
It holds...the vessel holds! This is the one.
At long last!
Look! We have finally created a talisman strong enough to withstand our experiments!
We've named it a “warding scale”─for the time being. With this in your possession, your soul should be completely shielded from corruptive aether.
Afforded such protection, any one of us may approach the towers without fear. Thou hast mine admiration─'tis an invention of historical significance.
I thank you for your kind words! But I would prefer you keep them unsaid until we test the talisman's efficacy in the field.
It is for the next stage of our plan that we summoned you in the first place: to accompany me to the Tower of Zot.
Should the scale prove effective─as I very much hope it will─then you'll have little to do. But should the effect be weaker than anticipated, I must ask that you restrain me. Or knock me senseless.
Either way, we are fortunate to have you with us.
Nidhana, I... Are you certain you wish to do this?
If others are to trust our creations, then we must have faith in them first. And as the senior researcher, it falls to me to lead by example.
But...should I fail to return, then learn what you can from this attempt and apply it to the next. Our work must continue. Is that clear?
We'll keep an eye on the place while you're away.
Assuming Fandaniel is lurking about, there's no telling what mischief he has in mind for us─or you. Be on your guard.
Shall we be on our way? I'll have one of the soldiers at the hatchery prepare us a boat, and we can set out from the northern shore. I'll see you there.
