Oh no, that's not good! Should I call upon one of the chaperones!?
I suppose this heat and intense exercise mix as well as oil does with water. Should I offer assistance?
You're quite right! Even the strongest of us will wither before the sun without water and rest. I'll go and tell them as much!
You're quite right! Even the strongest of us will wither before the sun without water and rest. I'll go and tell them as much!
I see that, but what use are muscles before the pitiless rays of the sun? At the very least, I should recommend a short constitutional.
I had a word with the men, and they insisted there was nothing to worry about. Still, my duty is to dig out the roots of trouble before they break soil, so in that respect I consider this a success.
Speaking of which, I see no further signs of distress along the beach. I believe our relief should be along soon, and truth be told I'm glad for it. I can't bear this stifling heat for much longer...
Still, better to be baking under the hot sun than drowning under the ocean waves. Every breath I took invited more water into my lungs... If one of the seven hells lies on the ocean floor, doubtless its doors were cast open for my arrival.
But I'm grateful to be alive and well, and with a few feats of derring-do under my belt besides. That's in no small part thanks to you, Forename─your sound guidance led me to take action where I might have been paralyzed by doubt.
I have Haermaga's costume to thank, too. It may very well have some special power to turn the timid into the lionhearted...
Impressive work, you two! I say you've earned some rest, eh? Allow me to watch over our patrons─I can only hope my stretch is half as eventful as yours was!
Much appreciated, Master Beaudefoin!
I suspect Master Haermaga will want to hear of our successes here. Let's go and make our report.
I know I yet have a long journey ahead of me, but I hope that I've taken at least a few bounding strides toward my goal.
Ah, there you are! The stories of your deeds precede you─revelers up and down the beaches are taken with your bravery.
The one you plucked from the sea even came to offer his personal thanks. By all accounts, your lost confidence has been restored, and more besides. I reckon you're ready to set off on your own, but I won't force it upon you if you've got lingering reservations.
I... Well, truth be told, I wouldn't have been able to do it without Forename's help. And this mask, of course─donning it makes me forget the meaning of the word “impossible.”
Hmm... You have to realize that Forename won't be around forever, so inclined to adventuring abroad as she is. A savior needs to be able to carry their burden alone if they're to earn the trust of others.
You know, you never did tell us why you're so frightened of showing your face. Something tells me you didn't crawl out of your mother's womb with your hands covering your eyes. Am I right?
...Aye. It happened when I was just getting my feet wet as an adventurer, during a job that should have been unremarkable...
We were tasked with guarding a merchant caravan, which naturally drew the attention of a terrible, slavering beast. Instead of sticking it with a spear like I was supposed to, I was knocked senseless within moments.
When I regained my senses, I saw that my partner had been dealt a grievous wound and the caravan was in shambles─the job was an utter failure. For a blessing, none lost their lives, but I lost all standing in the eyes of my allies and employers.
They blamed me for their injuries and the damage to their goods, and rightfully so. The memory of their scornful gazes is etched in my mind, and I see them every time I look another in the eyes.
So you coped with your fear by hiding behind a helm. It's starting to make sense...
You know, Lyonell, that suit's more than a masterwork of comfort. There's a meaning behind its design, if you can believe it...
See, it's meant to evoke the image of the Phoenix. That legendary bird symbolizes rebirth, rising from the ashes over and over again, each time shining brighter than before.
Seeing your triumphs as a Sunshine Savior has made me certain that the Phoenix's fire burns within you, Lyonell. And when those flames are stoked, you'll be reborn with more courage than you ever could've imagined.
All this time, I was wrapped in the Phoenix's embrace... Yes, if there's a chance I might be born anew, then the path ahead of me is clear!
I'm heading back to the beach─this time without a mask!
Something on your mind? Did I lay it on too thick?
When you get to my age, you can't help but light fires under those that need it.
And that lad needed it something fierce, so I lit a raging bonfire under his arse! Just had to work with the embers that were already there─that burning desire of his to help the downtrodden.
