All I craved and more... Boundless power, mine to command...
Hahaha... Ahahahaha...
I had intended to pit my fractured divinity against Zenos...but a more tempting option presents itself.
The greatest obstacle to my ambition. You will trouble me no longer.
Establishing connection. All creation shall bend to my will...
The end has come...and it will be beautiful!
The marvels of Syrcus were but playthings...
Malice... Become flesh!
Malice... Become flesh!
Malice... Become flesh!
Will you live to see the end?
Soon, my hold over Zodiark shall be complete...
Mine...all mine!
Ahahahahahaha!
At last, I am become Zodiark!
The natural order overturned...
...all in existence bent to my will!
My life's work...my masterpiece!
How I've waited for this day!
The great cataclysm...faithfully recreated.
From broken skies fall tears of flame...
All shall burn!
I have no need for restraint!
Is this the limit of your power!? Is this how it ends!?
Well done. My preparations are complete, and I stand ready to seal Zodiark once more.
Withdraw now from this place. The teleporter will deliver you to safety.
Haha...heh heh heh... Incomplete...and insufficient. Of course He was no match.
Once again, you have left my best-laid plans in ruins...
And played your role to perfection, thus sealing my victory!
From the first, all I wanted was for you to kill Zodiark.
'Twas but one of many methods to achieve the desired effect. 'Twould've been the same had Zenos died in my place.
But what better and more satisfying way to ensure success than to take control myself?
My sole regret is that you live to tell the tale. Even so, I have fulfilled my heart's desire!
Let your murder mark the beginning of the end...
The coming of the Final Days!
How quickly strength fades, and blood cools. Old, familiar sensations...
So many lives. So many deaths. No different, this. I close my eyes and slip into the dreamless slumber.
A tired song and dance. Routine. Always I wake.
But not this time─hah! Nothing left unsaid, nothing left undone. Inherit my hell, I intone with glee.
The man I was would weep for what I have become. The all-consuming contempt.
But I've the wisdom of ten millennia to justify my answer to the question. No value in their existence─not a whit. For all that I looked, none that I did see.
A final chance, then, for Hydaelyn and Her faithful. In cataclysm prove me wrong, I sneer.
All shall return to nothingness. As was your will, Emperor Xande.
I, the star, and every living being...consigned to your oblivion.
