Asking after the High Luminary as well, are you? I know not where to find him, but I do hope you have the opportunity to speak together.
He is a great man, with a deep reverence for our traditions. These glyphs we carve, for one─he affords them as much value as any treasure we possess.
They are records of lives lived. Your arrival, too, I will etch into the stone, that the story of our meeting may endure for untold turnings of the sun.
If you are curious about our ways, then I bid you visit Proof, to the northwest of here. It is one of our gravesites.
Go to Proof. The stones will help you understand my people.
First things first. Was anyone able to coax forth a definite location for the High Luminary?
As expected. What, then, of clues or other hints that might point us in the right direction?
I heard that in addition to his usual duties, Gurfurlur is also charged with keeping the graves.
As did I. The Yok Huy's sepulchres appear to hold a special significance in their culture.
Hm. But would it be appropriate for us outsiders to enter into their burial grounds...?
“Proof,” you say. And he encouraged you to visit this place yourself?
Then let's go and take a look. Even if we don't find Gurfurlur there, it will give us the chance to learn more about the Yok Huy!
The gravesite is somewhere northwest of here? Well, we can leave from that side of the village for a start. Shall we?
The others have gone on ahead to Proof, following the trail west. There are sharp drops everywhere, so we're all moving at our own pace. Some of us are not built for craggy terrain...
I thought to get my bearings from up here first so I don't stumble off a cliff. Why don't you try catching up to Erenville? He should be able to point you in the right direction.
Is that Proof, way over there...?
It's not quite mountain climbing, but these steep slopes are exhausting enough...
These have the look of homes rather than graves, but 'twould seem long years have passed since anyone living resided here.
Take a look at this crater. There is no wood, no trees, not even dried grass, and yet the ground still burns.
This must be one of the scars left by Valigarmanda's rampage, as told by the saga.
The Skyruin's fires are described as eternal─flames that can be quenched by neither storm nor time. And here I thought it a literary embellishment.
Ah, but now I've lost sight of Wuk Lamat. Proof is northwest along the main road, so hopefully she's still heading the right way...
“A world you cannot experience alone.” Is that what her journey with the Dawnservant showed her? Something that I, too, might find...?
