Welcome.
High Luminary Gurfurlur?
He is not here, at present. I am Luminary Zurmurwur.
This is the Skyruin, Valigarmanda?
It is. The tural vidraal whose name has evoked terror since time immemorial.
Even my people, once conquerors of all beneath the sun, were as brittle leaves before Valigarmanda's tempestuous power.
When the Skyruin descended upon Urqopacha eight decades ago, the casualties were staggering. Had Gulool Ja Ja and his companions not intervened, we would have been slaughtered to the last.
Their titanic battle with Valigarmanda raged for ten days and ten nights.
As their foe fought on, tireless and relentless, our heroes were pushed beyond the limits of their endurance.
Thus did the Head of Reason concoct a desperate plan. Gulool Ja Ja tricked the Skyruin into losing control of its own ice magicks, causing the unwitting tural vidraal to encase itself in frozen aether.
And it's been like this ever since. Nice work, Papa!
But...what happens if the ice ever melts?
That same question looms large in our minds, for the magicks sustaining this prison grow weaker with each passing year.
Valigarmanda commands powers of fire and lightning and ice. Some believe that the violence of the recent storm was the result of those energies slipping free.
That raging tempest, from Valigarmanda...?
Setting future worries aside, you are come to attempt the Feat of Proof, yes? The High Luminary, chosen elector of the Dawnservant, has left me with instructions for all aspiring claimants.
You are to scour our forbidding mountains, and find the waiting Gurfurlur. That is to be your challenge.
Ah, so the search itself is the feat.
You've already spoken with my brothers, I take it?
I have. Their expeditions are underway.
Then we'd better pick up the pace!
Aye, but we'll need a direction to search in first. Let's see what hints we can gather from the villagers.
I sensed the recent expulsion of a great deal of aether from Valigarmanda's prison. The ice will hold for but a few years more, I fear.
Tural vidraal sound an awful lot like the auspices of the Far East. Are they the same thing under a different name, do you think?
I've encountered many extraordinary creatures in Eorzea and elsewhere, but long has it been since I've felt such an overwhelming presence─like a thousand dagger points pricking my skin.
As large as the Yok Huy are, seeking blindly for one in the expanse of these mountains would be an exercise in futility. We need more information.
Gods, Valigarmanda is enormous! I know Papa had friends with him, but it's incredible he could hold his own against that thing.
Should its prison ever fail, though, we can't expect the old guard to come running. It'll be up to us to save the day...
If we want to pass this feat, it looks like we've got more climbing ahead of us!
As we've just been informed, the Feat of Proof requires us to seek the High Luminary Gurfurlur somewhere upon these mountains.
However, if earlier feats are any indication, we must assume the challenge precludes the Yok Huy from answering our questions in a straightforward manner.
Thus I would ask that you pay close attention while attempting to divine Gurfurlur's whereabouts.
Though the giants may not give us a precise location, there may be clues hidden within their words. Such is my theory, anyway. Let us see what we can discover.
The Yok Huy are bigger than I imagined. Side by side, they'd make even a Hanu look small.
This wall is covered in Yok Huy writing. I wonder what it says...
From what I've seen of them so far, the Yok Huy seem a gentle and reserved people.
They grow corn here, too. It's a common crop wherever you go─including up north in Xak Tural.
When you've finished asking around, we can meet back where we started.
