The opening sequence: A whirl of stars, humming softly, the view slowly drifting downwards and changing to show Aeris's face lit by Mako. She stands and walks out into the streets of Midgar as the camera pans back to show the city in full before again diving in, this time following a train as it pulls into a station in Sector 8. Biggs and Jessie leap off first, taking out the two guards stationed there. Wedge follows, and the three of them run ahead. Barret and Cloud leap down last.
Barret runs ahead. Cloud follows, taking out two guards who stand in his path. He joins Biggs, Wedge, and Jessie at the gate to the reactor complex, where Jessie is working to open the door.
Barret comes running over.
Jessie opens the door and she, Biggs, and Wedge run through. Barret turns back to Cloud.
Barret runs on ahead. Cloud looks up at the reactor before following. In front of the reactor, everyone but Wedge heads across the bridge inside.
Cloud follows the others into the reactor.
Cloud shrugs.
The first door opens and they run through.
The second door opens, and Jessie, Cloud, and Barret enter the elevator.
Cloud pushes the button.
Barret shakes his fist but says nothing. The elevator reaches the bottom and they exit. After heading down a set of stairs, Jessie hangs back to let the other two continue on.
Barret and Cloud eventually reach the core of the reactor.
For an instant, everything goes red and Cloud stands on tiptoe. There is a sharp humming noise.
Cloud sets the bomb. Alarms go off and he looks around.
They enter a battle with the Guard Scorpion.
In spite of Cloud's unfortunately translated advice, they defeat the Guard Scorpion.
Heading out, Cloud comes across Jessie, trying to tug her foot free. He crouches down beside her to help.
Leg freed, she jumps over him and runs on. Cloud follows her back up the elevator. (If you fail to help Jessie going up, Biggs will tell you "Jessie hasn't come up yet," and you have to go back down to help her anyway.)
They run back through the first door.
They all run from the reactor and back across the bridge to the exit where Wedge is waiting. Barret accidentally bowls Jessie over, Cloud helps her up, and they make it through the door just as the reactor blows.
In the escape passage, the way out has been blocked by rubble, and Jessie is setting explosives to open the way.
The bomb blows an exit and they leap out one by one. Wedge runs around for a minute as though on fire.
Biggs, Wedge, and Jessie nod and run off in separate directions. Barret starts to leave.
Barret runs off, and Cloud is left to make his own way to the station. Heading up into a city square, he sees a flower girl (Aeris), who gets knocked down by some people running around in a panic. She gets up, dusts herself off, and walks over to him.
The flower girl walks away, and Cloud continues through Sector 8.
Eventually Cloud reaches an intersection, beneath which the railroad tracks run out from a tunnel.
More soldiers come from another direction.
Even more soldiers arrive, and they surround Cloud above the railway tunnel.
As the soldiers lunge for him, Cloud jumps from the street and lands atop a train passing by underneath.
Inside the train, Barret, Biggs, Wedge, and Jessie are gathered in the baggage car.
They lapse into silence for a moment, and then glance up at a drumming noise on the roof.
Barret bangs the crate again.
They all glance up at some louder banging on the roof. The door opens and Cloud swings through.
Barret moves on ahead to the next car.
Biggs disappears, too, leaving just Cloud and Jessie. Jessie walks over to the open door.
Jessie disappears into the next car. Cloud follows.
As the members of AVALANCHE run into the car, other passengers leave.
If you try to move on to the next car, a train worker stops you.
A red light starts flashing.
The lights stop flashing.
Cloud walks over to join Barret in looking out the window.
Barret gets up.
The train pulls into the Sector 7 station, and its passengers get off.
If Cloud tries to run off...
The others group around Barret by the steps down from the platform.
Barret runs off, and Biggs, Wedge, and Jessie follow him.
A red-haired couple are standing by the street lamp.
Cloud leaves the train station and walks through the sector.
Cloud looks up at the support pillar with him.
Of course, you can ignore him if you want. Some distance from the fence are two soldiers guarding an exit.
As Cloud approaches 7th Heaven, Barret and the others charge into the bar. Gunfire is heard, and a number of customers run out. Tifa comes out after them and bows apologetically. All the AVALANCHE members go inside but Barret, who waits impatiently by the entrance.
The Weapons Shop is open, however.
Upstairs, the storage area (Beginner's Hall) is closed off.
Cloud returns to 7th Heaven, where Barret is waiting.
Cloud enters 7th Heaven, and Marlene hops up excitedly.
Cloud starts, and when Marlene sees it's him, she runs and hides in the corner. Tifa comes out from behind the bar and hurries over to her.
If you bought a flower...
Nothing happens until Barret comes in.
If you didn't buy a flower...
Biggs, Wedge, and Jessie are sitting around a table relaxing.
Cloud starts for the door, but has to jump out of the way as Barret comes thundering in.
He lifts her up onto his shoulder.
If you gave the flower to Marlene...
Barret heads down to the basement using the pinball machine elevator, and the others follow. Cloud can wander the Sector a little more before joining them.
Back at the train station, the couple is still there.
Closer to 7th Heaven...
Back in 7th Heaven, Tifa's still behind the bar, though the place is empty. If Cloud approaches...
Cloud sits.
Cloud gets up.
Cloud goes down to the basement. Jessie is working at her computer, while Wedge is sitting at the table in the center of the room. Barret is using a punching bag in the corner, and Biggs and Marlene are nearby on either side of him.
The TV near Jessie's computer is on, showing the bombing. President Shinra is in the middle of a speech.
Barret lunges for Cloud, and Biggs tries to hold him back.
Barret throws Biggs off, slamming him against the wall, and stands there seething.
Cloud starts to leave, but Tifa, who's come down in the midst of this, runs up to him.
Cloud goes upstairs and starts for the door. Tifa comes after him.
The scene shifts to show the well in the center of Nibelheim. The sky is bright with stars.
In the memory, a young Tifa comes to join a young Cloud at the well.
Cloud goes around and climbs up to the top of the well. He nods.
Tifa makes a sobbing motion into her hands.
A shooting star flashes across the sky.
Barret climbs up the elevator shaft from below.
Cloud and the others go to sleep for the night.
Cloud wakes alone in the basement and heads upstairs.
A tutorial begins.
Cloud and the others leave 7th Heaven together. By now the Item Shop is open.
Returning to the Weapons Shop...
On the second floor, the Beginner's Hall is open.
If you don't have any Potions in your inventory:
Cloud will then begin his explanation:
If you talk to the dog, you enter a short controls tutorial, and then a finger appears over Cloud's head.
Across from the man and dog, there is a materia sitting in front of a man with a hat.
A treasure chest falls from the ceiling. Cloud opens it.
Inside the fenced area, a boy and girl are sparring.
The girl starts glowing and pummels the boy, knocking him down.
The girl uses reflect and knocks down the boy.
The kids shrug and go back to their sparring match.
An image of the save point now fills the screen.
A treasure chest drops down to replace the save point.
On the third floor of the Weapons Shop, there are some beds. If you haven't paid, the kid runs in after you.
Cloud rests.
Back outside, a small crowd is gathered around Johnny. Biggs, Wedge, and Jessie, who are among them, run off as soon as Cloud nears. Johnny's mom goes back inside her house.
Johnny runs off.
Inside Johnny's house...
Back outside...
Further on, to where the two soldiers are stationed...
Cloud and the others continue on to the train station. The same red-haired couple is still there.
They move to embrace, but fall over from exhaustion.
Biggs, Wedge, and Jessie are by the train, and they run inside as Cloud approaches.
Cloud and the others board the train.
Cloud and the others board the train from the Sector 7 station.
Biggs, Wedge, and Jessie run off to another car.
The Shinra manager sits down just as Barret runs over.
The manager jumps.
Barret pounds the wall above the manager and he jumps again.
Barret jumps back and aims his gunarm at the man.
Barret turns away from the man. Tifa runs over and bows apologetically before joining Barret and Cloud.
With a rumble, the train starts moving.
Barret sits down, and Tifa runs over to the railway map monitor.
Cloud joins Tifa by the map monitor.
Cloud steps closer, but suddenly a red light starts flashing.
Jessie runs in from the other car.
Cloud and the others move on to Car #2...
On to Car #3...
Jessie runs towards the next car, punching some guy in her way.
If Cloud runs after and catches up to the thief...
On to Car #4...
On to Car #5, where Biggs is dressed in a suit and hat, Jessie wears a red Shinra uniform, and Wedge is dressed in overalls.
Cloud shrugs and jumps. Barret turns to Biggs, Wedge, and Jessie.
There are several alternate scenarios if you don't make it to the last car in time.If you don't make it past the 1st car...
Barret opens the outside door.
Cloud scratches his head and follows them in jumping off the train.
If you don't make it past the 2nd car...
Barret opens the outside door.
Cloud scratches his head and follows them in jumping off the train.
If you don't make it past the 4th car...
They jump from the train.
Back to the main scenario. In the train tunnel...
At the end of the tunnel, there are light beams blocking the way.
Cloud moves to inspect an airduct.
Eventually Cloud and the others go down the hole and come out in the maintenance walkways beneath the Sector 4 plate.
Going up the ladder, they run across Jessie.
Onward, down a different ladder...
They move onwards into the reactor. When they near its core, Cloud suddenly collapses.
In the Nibelheim reactor of five years prior, Tifa is kneeling by her father's body.
She takes Sephiroth's sword and runs farther inside the reactor.
Cloud sets the bomb, and they hurry out of the reactor. Coming out of the elevator, they reach a closed door, and a room on the side with three large buttons.
If Cloud fails to push the button at the right time...
Eventually they succeed and run on out of the reactor. They proceed across the bridge.
Footsteps echo, and they all turn to look as President Shinra walks out of the reactor.
Cloud takes a step back.
Barret runs up, pushing Cloud aside.
He snaps his fingers, and a whirring noise starts up.
A robot zooms in from the left.
A helicopter comes up from below to hover near President Shinra.
Shinra climbs onto the helicopter, and it flies off.
The techno-soldier lunges at Barret and Tifa.
They fight and defeat the Airbuster, but it explodes. Cloud falls into the gap in the bridge created by the explosion but manages to catch the far edge with one hand.
The reactor explodes, and Cloud loses his grip, falling into Sector 5 below. Tifa reaches for him, but Barret pulls her back.
Cloud struggles for a second, then manages to sit up. He finds himself in a flower bed in an old, run-down church.
If Cloud walks to the exit, there is someone just behind the door...
She crouches down by the flower bed. Cloud walks over to her.
While they're talking, a redhead in a blue suit (Reno) walks into the church and stops just inside the door.
Cloud shrugs.
Cloud steps back and shakes his finger at her. Then he walks forwards towards Reno.
Flash of white.
Three soldiers run enter behind Reno, laughing.
She and Cloud run through. Reno walks forward across the flower bed.
In the back room of the church, Cloud and Aeris hurry up a set of stairs towards the rafters. They stop before a broad gap in the floorboards as Reno and the soldiers run in.
She walks to the gap and shakes her head. Cloud nods.
The soldiers fire at Aeris and she tumbles down to the bottommost floor.
One of the soldiers advances on Aeris.
If he pushes the right barrel...
The barrel falls down and knocks over the soldier.
If he pushes the wrong barrel...
The barrel falls and lands on the ground.
She has to fight the soldier anyway.
She steps forward to fight the soldier.
She runs for the stairs.
Somehow or another, Cloud and Aeris dispatch the three soldiers, and then Aeris joins Cloud up in the rafters.
He leads her up through a hole in the roof. They stop for a moment outside.
They start off across the roofs, Cloud running ahead.
Cloud turns to wait for her to catch up.
They both laugh.
They continue on and jump down from the roofs.
If Cloud runs back into the church, he finds two small children there.
The children run back to the flower bed.
Cloud and Aeris continue through Sector 5. Two men are blocking the way to Sector 6.
Not far from them is a large segment of pipe that's been converted into a small, one-room home.
She and Cloud step into the pipe.
They go back outside and continue towards her house.
Inside the Materia Shop...
If Cloud tries to look inside the shopkeeper's freezer...
Inside the Item Shop...
In a nearby house, a man is watching TV.
Upstairs...
Cloud walks to the set of drawers.
The top and bottom drawers are empty, but in the hidden drawer is 5 gil, which Cloud has the option of taking.
Back outside...
Inside the Weapon Shop...
They reach Aeris's house and go inside.
Elmyra comes back down from upstairs.
Aeris disappears upstairs.
Cloud heads upstairs.
Cloud goes to sleep.
Flashback to Cloud's house in Nibelheim, where Cloud is lying sprawled on his bed, his mother walking about nearby.
Cloud wakes up.
Cloud starts past Aeris's room, but if he hits the creak in the floorboards, Aeris runs out of her room.
Cloud goes back to sleep for a bit.
Slipping past her room, Cloud goes downstairs and leaves Aeris's house.
He heads through Sector 5 alone, only to find Aeris waiting at the exit.
Cloud scratches his head sheepishly.
She runs off, and Cloud follows.
Aeris and Cloud head through Sector 6 and arrive at the playground.
Cloud shrugs and joins her.
The gate to Sector 7 opens, and a chocobo-drawn carriage comes out. Tifa is riding in back, wearing a blue dress. Cloud jumps to his feet.
The carriage pulls past them and into Wall Market.
Aeris jumps off the slide and runs after the carriage.
He sighs and follows her into Wall Market.
On to the Honey Bee Inn, a brothel outside of which a number of guys are hanging around.
Back to the main streets...
Inside the automated Item store, if Cloud attempts to use the machine...
A machine gun pivots and fires at Cloud.
Inside the Materia Shop...
Inside the dress shop...
Back outside again, two people are talking across from the gym...
Inside the gym...
Inside the bar...
Inside the weapon shop...
At Don Corneo's mansion...
Aeris and Cloud step aside to talk.
Aeris runs over to the doorman before he can protest further.
Now that they know where Tifa is, it becomes possible to enter the Honey Bee Inn.
Cloud runs inside, leaving Aeris behind. Inside, all the women are dressed in bee costumes.
The Queen's Room.
There is a wind blowing and ominous thunder.
Through the keyhole, a figure dressed as a king is pacing back and forth while one of the honey girls lies on the bed. In the shadows of the room are two men in suits and another dressed as a knight.
There are slapping noises.
If Cloud takes another look...
From this point it repeats the earlier dialogue.
The Lover's Room.
There are odd sort of snoring sounds.
Through the keyhole, an elderly couple is seated together on the bed. In the tub on the opposite side of the room bounces a tiny Cait Sith.
If Cloud takes a second look...
If Cloud takes a third look...
The lights turn out. On any subsequent look, Cloud will only hear snoring.
In the dressing room, three women sit in front of vanity mirrors.
The &$#% Room.
Cloud enters the room.
Inside the room, there's a translucent Cloud crouching in the corner.
Cloud starts clutching his head in pain.
Cloud collapses.
Cloud wakes up to find a mustached man slapping him.
Cloud gets up.
The Group Room.
Cloud enters the room.
A group of about 10 men runs in.
The men advance on Cloud, and the camera raises above their heads. Fabric noises are heard, and Cloud raises his arms.
Somehow they all get into the tub, and the camera lowers again.
The camera lifts up and they all get back out of the tub.
The men all run out.
Cloud gets up and shrugs.If Cloud walks back into the dressing room...
Cloud leaves the dressing room and exits the Honey Bee Inn. Outside, Aeris is surrounded by the men hanging around, but they scatter when Cloud steps out.
Back on the main quest. Aeris and Cloud head to the dress shop.
On talking to her again:
Heading on over to the bar, they approach a man slouched at the counter.
Cloud turns away.
Depending on her answers, the clothing shop owner makes either a silk or a cotton dress.
Cloud and Aeris return to the dress shop, the owner having preceded them.
Cloud goes into the changing room, and after a few moments of shuffling--
Aeris walks over, peers in, and shakes her head.
Cloud comes out of the dressing room in his usual attire.
Off to the gym...
If Cloud wins...
The Beautiful Bro kicks him across the room.
If the two tie...
The Beautiful Bro kicks him across the room.
If Cloud loses...
The black man pulls it out from... somewhere and hands it to Cloud. Beautiful Bro punches him across the room.
The other men gather around the black man lying on the floor.
Just the wig will do to get Cloud into Don Corneo's mansion, but other supplies make the disguise more convincing, so he and Aeris can continue to wander Wall Market in search of them...
Inside the restaurant...
There is only one empty seat.
If you don't have enough money...
If you do have the money...
Nothing happens unless he says "It was all right." On subsequent visits after obtaining the pharmacy coupon, the waitress will say "Thank you very much!" no matter what Cloud tells her.
If Cloud attempts to walk behind the counter...
Cloud leaves the restaurant and heads to the pharmacy. It takes a moment for the shopkeeper to notice him.
Either the disinfectant or the digestive can yield a more useful item if Cloud heads back to the bar...
If Cloud gives her the Disinfectant...
She leaves the bathroom and the man waiting runs in.
If Cloud gives her the Digestive...
She leaves the bathroom and the man waiting runs in.
Nothing happens.
One last item can be obtained in the materia shop...
Off to the inn...
Cloud gets a room, and during his stay, he walks out to the vending machine.
Back to the materia shop...
Back to the materia shop...
Aeris turns away again.
Back to the materia shop...
Aeris turns away again.
Back to the materia shop...
Aeris turns away again.
If you don't have enough gil...
If Cloud returns to the Honey Bee Inn before donning his disguise...
All items obtained, there is nothing for it but to return to the dress shop...
Cloud changes in the dressing room and steps out.
Cloud walks primly around the room.
Everyone stares at the curtain while she changes, and after a few moments she emerges in a red dress with her hair down.
Cloud just shakes his head.
They leave the dress shop and can now wander around a bit without being recognized. If Cloud tries to leave Wall Market, Aeris hangs back.
Outside the Honey Bee Inn...
All the men run over.
At the restaurant...
At the Materia shop...
At the gym...
And finally... off to Don Corneo's mansion...
The door opens, and Cloud and Aeris walk through.
Of two doors upstairs, one is closed, and the other reads "Office of The Don Corneo Keep Out!" Aeris and Cloud go down a long set of stairs to the basement, where they find Tifa. When Cloud sees her, he turns away. Aeris goes over to talk to her alone.
If Cloud tries to run away upstairs, Aeris comes after him.
If Cloud tries to talk to Aeris, she just laughs. Cloud walks up to Tifa, head down.
If Cloud tries to run away upstairs, Aeris comes after him again.
The three of them head back upstairs.
They enter Don Corneo's office, where he is seated at his desk, flanked by two lackeys.
Cloud, Aeris, and Tifa line up in front of the desk, and Corneo jumps up.
Depending on the items collected for Cloud's disguise, Don Corneo will choose one of the three.
Corneo walks to Tifa.
Corneo turns to his lackeys.
He starts for his bedroom and Tifa follows. After a scene change, Cloud ends up in the basement with a bunch of guys.
The men crowd around Cloud with arms outstretched like zombies.
Cloud takes off the dress, revealing his usual uniform underneath.
Cloud fights off three of Corneo's lackeys.
Cloud dispatches Scotch and the other two lackeys. He then hurries back towards the other basement room, where Kotch is chasing Aeris around.
Aeris runs up the steps towards Cloud, then turns around to give Kotch a shove.
In Corneo's room, Tifa is sitting on the edge of his bed while he sits leering at her.
Cloud and Aeris run in.
Tifa jumps up as Corneo leaps for her, and he lands on his face.
Corneo walks to Aeris.
Corneo turns to his lackeys.
He starts for his room and Aeris follows. After a scene change, Cloud ends up in the basement with a bunch of guys.
The men crowd around Cloud with arms outstretched like zombies.
Cloud takes off the dress, revealing his usual uniform underneath.
Cloud fights off three of Corneo's lackeys.
Cloud dispatches Scotch and the other two lackeys. He then hurries back to the other basement room and meets Tifa as she's running out.
In Corneo's room, Aeris is sitting on the edge of his bed while he sits leering at her.
Cloud and Tifa run in.
Aeris jumps up as Corneo leaps for her, and he lands on his face.
Corneo walks to Cloud.
Corneo turns to his lackeys.
After exchanging glances with Tifa and Aeris, Cloud reluctantly follows Corneo into his bedroom.
If Cloud tries to run away...
Cloud approaches the bed.
Cloud walks over and leans forward to kiss Corneo, not quite touching lips. He shakes his head and tries again.
Cloud shakes his head violently and takes off the dress.
Cloud takes off the dress.
Tifa and Aeris come running in.
Cloud takes off the dress.
Tifa and Aeris come running in.
They all start for the door.
Corneo hits a switch and Cloud and the others fall through a trap door into the sewer.
At Shinra Headquarters, Reeve is standing before President Shinra's desk on the 70th floor. Heidegger walks up to join them.
Heidegger salutes and walks out. Reeve takes a few steps after him, but doesn't follow.
Reeve looks at him, and then walks off.
Having fallen through Don Corneo's trap door, Cloud, Aeris, and Tifa land in the sewers beneath Sector 6. Cloud goes to each of his companions in turn.
There is a low growling noise.
The Don's pet monster, Aps, attacks them, but they fight and defeat it.
They make their way through the sewers, climbing out to find themselves in Sector 7's Train Graveyard.
Winding their way through the abandoned trains, they make it to the all-but-deserted train station.
They run on past the station to the gated base of the pillar. A small crowd is gathered by the fence, and gunfire sounds from the staircase adjacent to the pillar.
The camera pans up the length of the pillar to where Barret is fighting at the very top of the stairs. Wedge is with him, but he falls from the platform to land near Cloud and the others. Everyone runs over.
Cloud shakes his head and stands.
Tifa turns to the crowd.
Everyone disperses but no one leaves the area.
If Cloud tries to leave the area...
Cloud and Tifa climb the staircase, running into Biggs and Jessie, both wounded, along the way.
Cloud and Tifa reach the top of the pillar to join Barret.
The helicopter passes overhead, and Barret fires at it. Reno jumps down and runs over to the control panel.
They enter a battle with Reno, who casts his Pyramid spell on someone.
The fight continues until Reno checks his watch.
Reno runs past Tifa and jumps from the platform. Tifa runs to the controls.
The helicopter rises up from below with Tseng of the Turks on its side rig and Aeris behind him.
He fires at Tseng, who remains unfazed.
Aeris lifts her head, and Barret lowers his gun arm.
Tseng turns and slaps Aeris, and she falls back.
The helicopter flies off just as the first explosions go off and the pillar starts to come apart.
They all spend a few moments frantically looking for an escape route, and then Barret jumps over to a cable attached to the platform.
They all climb onto the cable and swing out as the plate comes crashing down behind them. The camera pans back to show President Shinra watching its destruction from his office as he listens to opera music.
Cloud, Tifa, and Barret land in the Sector 6 playground, now littered with smoking debris from Sector 7. They stand and walk slowly to the gate that once led to Sector 7.
Cloud and Tifa run over to him.
Some time passes... Having settled down some, Barret is seated at the base of the slide, and Cloud and Tifa stand nearby.
Barret gets to his feet.
At this point, Cloud turns away and folds his arms pensively.
Cloud walks off towards Sector 5 without answering.
Barret starts after Cloud, but stops when Tifa doesn't follow immediately.
He turns and runs after Cloud. Tifa follows with a glance back over her shoulder. Up ahead, Cloud is making his way through Sector 6.
Cloud stops to let Tifa and Barret catch up.
The screen goes black momentarily.
Cloud and the others arrive in Sector 5.
Inside the nearby house...
Upstairs...
If Cloud took the kid's 5 gil earlier...
If Cloud left it alone...
Back outside...
Inside the Weapons Shop...
They continue onward to Aeris's house, where Elmyra is there to receive them.
In the flashback, Elmyra is waiting at the Sector 7 train station. A pair who look very much like Biggs and Jessie is hanging around at the lamp post like a couple. A man gets off the train and lifts the woman waiting for him into the air. Another man gets off, and the woman waiting for him picks him up. No one else gets off. Elmyra runs up to the station man who shakes his head.
Aeris's mother Ifalna is lying at the bottom of the steps, and a seven-year-old Aeris stands nearby crying. Elmyra runs over. Ifalna slowly lifts her head, and then falls still again.
As Elmyra continues, the scene changes to her house, with a young Aeris running around.
The scene shifts to show Elmyra sobbing at her kitchen table.
In a new scene, Tseng of the Turks has come to the house. A young Aeris is hiding behind Elmyra.
Barret goes upstairs.
Upstairs, Barret is hugging Marlene to him.
Cloud moves to leave without saying anything, but Barret notices him.
Cloud goes back downstairs and heads for the door.
Barret comes thundering down.
Barret turns to Cloud and Tifa. They all nod and run outside.
Back inside the house...
Cloud and the others head for Wall Market to search the area for something useful. Outside the Honey Bee Inn, the redheaded punk sits blocking the entrance...
Inside the gym...
In the bar...
In the Weapons Shop...
If you don't have enough money...
As they approach Don Corneo's mansion, a trio of kids runs into the alley beyond.
Corneo's mansion is empty, except for Kotch strapped to a table in the basement.
He runs off.
In the alley beyond the mansion, they find a girl standing at the bottom of a graffitied wall.
They all look up.
Cloud and the others start up the wire. At the top of the wall, the other two kids are looking at the rubble of Sector 7.
Cloud climbs past them to where the wire ends and there is a tangle of piping and train tracks.
Making their way through the tangle of debris left by Sector 7's destruction, Cloud and the others eventually reach the upper plate...
Cloud, Tifa, and Barret stand before Shinra Headquarters.
They run inside.
He aims his gun-arm at the receptionist.
Everyone else flees as the soldiers run to fight Cloud and the others, who defeat them with ease.
If Cloud checks the elevator tubes near the front entrance...
At the back of the lobby, there is a bulletin board there with flyers.
On the second floor is a shop, and a couple is looking at a car advertisement on a television screen.
They notice Cloud and the others.
On speaking to her again...
If they try to open the treasure chests...
Cloud and the others leave and get on an elevator.
A red light starts flashing and alarms go off.
The numbers on the elevator are all scrambling.
The elevator stops four times before finally reaching the 59th floor. On some of the floors, instead of fighting Shinra soldiers, a Shinra employee may attempt to get on the elevator.
They enter through a side entrance and start climbing the stairs.
If Cloud turns around to leave the stairwell, the others come running back after him.
Barret and Cloud follow Tifa up the stairs.
Finally Barret stops, panting.
They continue on...
They finally reach the top and stop, panting.
They all walk through the exit to the 59th floor.
If Cloud tries to go back down...
Some soldiers are standing by the next set of elevators.
Cloud and the others fight off the soldiers, one of whom drops something.
They take the elevator up to the 60th floor.
The Shinra employee meant to be watching the security cameras is asleep on duty, so he doesn't see Cloud as he steps out of the elevator onto the 60th floor. A series of bust statues and a pair of guards block the way to the stairwell up.
They proceed into a side room.
If Cloud messes up...
Cloud and the others fight off the guards.
If Cloud messes up four times they end up taking out all the guards.
If they make it past the guards successfully...
They continue on to the 61st floor, the door to which is stuck open so they can get through without a keycard. It is a lounge area with a huge tree in the center and a number of employees milling around.
Having obtained the next keycard, they continue on to the 62nd floor, which houses several different libraries. They find a man waiting outside someone's office.
If you don't have enough money...
The placement of the books and the numbers vary each time, but below are the titles in their correct libraries without numbers. In each library there is also a television screen displaying a notice.
After obtaining the password, Cloud returns to Domino's office.
If Cloud guesses wrong...
Having obtained Domino's keycard, Cloud and the others continue on to the 63rd floor, which is a maze of small storage rooms with locked doors. Near the escalators is a room with a computer.
There is an air duct next to the computer.
The ducts can, however, be reached from some of the other rooms. By using the air ducts and the three doors, Cloud can manage to get all three coupons and return to the computer.
Cloud and the others move on to the 64th floor. Here, they find an exercise room, a nap room, and a locker room.
If Cloud approaches a free treadmill...
Cloud hops on the treadmill. After a while...
If Cloud chooses to continue 3 times, he will then hop off on his own.
Nothing happens.
Nothing happens.
Nothing happens.
In the locker room, some of the lockers are unlocked.
They move on to the 65th floor, where there is a model of Midgar in a central room, and treasure chests placed around in side rooms.
Placing all the parts in the model opens up the treasure chest with Keycard 66 in it.
Cloud and the others move on to the 66th floor, which is dominated by a large conference room. Several offices and a bathroom take up the remaining space.
If Cloud speaks to her after she enters one of the offices, she will say any of the following depending on the room:
Cloud enters a stall in the bathroom. Above it is a vent.
Cloud climbs up and enters the duct system. Together he, Barret, and Tifa peer down through the next vent at the conference room below, where Shinra's executives are having a meeting.
They all get up and head for the door. Scarlet pauses to look up.
They climb back out of the ventilation shaft and into the bathroom. Hojo has fallen behind the others in leaving the conference room, and they follow him at a distance. They stop to wait for him to reach the top of the escalator before entering the stairwell after him.
They follow Hojo up before the door can lock after him, thereby reaching the 67th floor. Here sprawls the lower level of Hojo's laboratory. The three pause by the escalator.
They continue on.
Cloud and the others head down the hall and enter the lab, in the center of which is a glass chamber holding a lion-like creature. Someone is coming, so they hide behind some crates.
The man walks away, and Hojo leans forward to touch the glass.
He turns and leaves. Tifa walks up to the glass.
Cloud suddenly takes notice of a chamber to his right, and looks through the window.
He clutches his head in pain and collapses. Tifa runs over as he gets up.
Barret looks inside.
They go upstairs to find Hojo standing before a corresponding glass chamber directly above the other, inside of which is Aeris.
Barret runs over and aims his gun-arm at Hojo.
The elevator within the glass chamber raises, bringing the lion-creature up to join Aeris. It starts growling at her and she runs away to pound on the glass.
Barret fires at the glass chamber, and it starts glowing brightly. Hojo rushes to the door.
The door opens and the lion-creature jumps out, pouncing on Hojo.
She runs out. Cloud starts to follow, but stops and turns around.
The lion creature looks up from attacking Hojo to address them.
Aeris runs out with either Tifa or Barret.
They dispatch Hojo's specimen, and Aeris rejoins the group.
Whoever he doesn't choose to come with him says goodbye:
The other team leaves.
The man then flees.
If Cloud attempts to go anywhere but the elevator...
Cloud and the others get on the 66th floor elevator. Rude of the Turks enters behind them.
Rude steps aside and Tseng enters.
The Turks take them up to the 70th floor, where they find the others also taken captive. Aeris is missing, though.
Cloud, Tifa, and Red XIII turn away without protest, but Barret hangs back.
He starts towards President Shinra, but Rude drags him away.
The scene changes to the detainment area, where they've been placed in cells. Cloud with Tifa, Barret with Red XIII, and Aeris by herself.
Red XIII turns away and lies down.
Tifa sits up from where she's been lying on the cot.
They settle down to rest. Cloud wakes before the others, finding the door to his and Tifa's cell open.
She sits up immediately.
Tifa runs out, and Cloud joins her.
Barret and Red XIII run out.
Cloud, Aeris, and Tifa follow Red XIII to where the Jenova specimen was kept, finding a huge bloody hole in the front of the empty chamber, with a trail of blood across the floor.
Red XIII heads for the elevator and the others follow.
They follow the trail of blood to the 70th floor, where they find President Shinra dead at his desk, impaled by the Masamune blade.
Tifa runs around behind the desk.
Palmer frees himself and runs off as a helicopter arrives outside.
They run outside to where Rufus and Palmer are, Palmer apparently just finishing up a quick report.
Palmer runs off.
Cloud turns to Barret.
Barret and the others run back downstairs. Aeris hangs back.
Aeris nods, and she, Red XIII, and Barret run on.
They get on the elevator, and a combat robot attacks them from the other car. They defeat the robot and continue down.
Back to Cloud, as he and Rufus face off...
Cloud fights Rufus and his pet Dark Nation.
Ultimately, Rufus decides to beat a dignified retreat.
Rufus grabs hold of the helicopter and it flies off with him. Cloud runs downstairs to where Tifa is waiting.
Back to Aeris and the others as they arrive on the first floor. If you attempt to get back on any of the elevators (depending on the floor):
They head for the front entrance.
They all climb into the display truck and drive it out the window, following Cloud on the motorcycle. Shinra troops follow on motorcycles, but Cloud dispatches them with his sword. They reach the end of the road, and a large, armored tank/robot attacks from behind. They defeat the robot, and find themselves standing at the edge of Midgar.
They climb down a cable to the ground level.
If Cloud chooses Aeris + Tifa for his party...
If Cloud chooses Barret + Red XIII for his party...
They otherwise depart without comment.
It is possible to go as far as the entrance of the Mythril Mines before entering Kalm. After viewing the Midgar Zolom, Cloud will dismount, pause, and turn to his chocobo.
Not far inside the mine, the others stop.
Cloud and his party arrive in Kalm.
The party starts to enter the inn.
The others all go inside, but Cloud has the opportunity to explore the town before joining them. A number of people are out in the square.
Inside the first house...
Inside the second house...
Inside the third house...
Upstairs, a boy is running around while a little girl watches him.
Inside the fourth house...
Inside the bar...
If Cloud tries to leave Kalm...
His exploration of the town exhausted, Cloud goes to the inn.
Cloud heads upstairs to find everyone waiting.
A flashback sequence begins. Cloud and Sephiroth are riding in the back of a truck with two Shinra infantrymen.
Cloud scratches his head.
There is a loud thud.
Sephiroth stands.
Sephiroth and Cloud go outside to fight the green dragon that attacked the truck. Sephiroth kills it in a few hits.
Another flashback sequence opens: Sephiroth approaches the gate to Nibelheim, then turns around to face the others, who are still off-screen behind him.
The others approach and stop before the gate.
While they're talking, the other soldier perks up and strikes the same pose.
In the flashback sequence, Sephiroth and Cloud are standing just outside the inn.
One of the soldiers runs in from the gate, stopping just behind Cloud.
Sephiroth goes inside just as a man runs out of the neighboring house.
Inside the house next to the inn...
Flash of white. The woman disappears.
Once Cloud emerges, the soldier is now walking around the square, pausing to look at the water tower, Tifa's house, and Cloud's house. Cloud walks up to the Shinra mansion.
Tifa's father is standing near the mansion.
If Cloud tries to go up the path towards the mountain...
Cloud goes to his house across the street.
Back in the flashback, Cloud walks farther into his house.
Flash of white noise.
Flash. Cloud is now lying on the bed.
Flash. They're now standing in the kitchen.
Flash.
Flash.
Flash.
Flash.
The screen fades to black.
The image returns, with Cloud just outside his house. If he tries to go back inside...
Cloud goes into Tifa's house.
Cloud walks up to Tifa's room.
He walks to her piano.
Nothing happens.
Cloud plays on the piano a bit. If you play the FF7 main theme, he'll say:
Cloud walks to Tifa's desk.
Cloud walks to the dresser.
Inside the neighboring house...
Two kids come running in.
Cloud enters the inn.
If you go back outside to talk to the soldier again...
SoldierHey, if you don't calm down, you won't get a good evaluation...
Cloud goes to the second floor of the inn to find Sephiroth standing by a window, staring out. While they're talking, the infantryman from the square comes up the stairs and enters the room.
CloudWhat are you looking at?
Sephiroth...This scenery...... I feel like I know this place.
Soldier (inside the room)We're short one bed...
Sephiroth............We have an early start tomorrow. You should get some sleep soon.
Cloud- It's still early- Yeah, let's get some sleep.

It's still early
Sephiroth...I'm not going to wake you up tomorrow.


Yeah, let's get some sleep.
SephirothI've hired a guide to the Mako reactor.I've heard she's young, I hope we can rely on her...

The next day, Cloud wakes late and runs out to join Sephiroth and the two soldiers at the start of the mountain path, just past the mansion. A few of the townsfolk are hanging around, too.
If Cloud goes back to the inn instead...
GrampsSo, what do you need, Cloud?
Cloud- Where's Sephiroth?- Give me a room to stay.- Let me know the situation of the town.

Where's Sephiroth?
Gramps...I think you probably know better than I do, but...


Let me know the situation of the town.
GrampsIt's the same story I always tell. You still want to hear it?
Cloud- Yeah, tell me again- No, that's all right

Inside the house next to the inn...
WomanWelcome.Oh, oh, you're...
Flash of white. The woman disappears. The same dialogue from earlier repeats and Cloud is standing back outside.
Inside the house next to Tifa's...
Black-haired WomanHave a safe trip.
If you try to enter the mansion...
SephirothHey, stay over here!
Man with CameraThink they'd let me take a picture?
Tifa's FatherIf I knew this was going to happen, I would've made mountain climbing off limits...
SoldierI was so nervous. I couldn't get any sleep...
Soldier 2...Late again.
If you try to go past them up the mountain path...
SephirothHey, calm down! Wait over here.
SephirothOnce the guide gets here, we're heading out.
Tifa's FatherListen to me, Sephiroth. In case something happens...
Tifa comes running up while he's speaking.
Sephiroth...Trust me.
TifaI'll be all right, Dad!I have two men from SOLDIER with me.I'm Tifa. Nice to meet you!
CloudTifa! You're the guide?
TifaThat's right.I just happen to be the number one guide in this town.
CloudIt's too dangerous! I can't involve you in something like this!
SephirothThen there's no problem if you protect her....Let's go.
Man with CameraUmmm...Mr. Sephiroth! Please let me take one picture for a memento!Tifa, can you ask him for me too......?
Cloud and Tifa both pose in front of the mansion. Sephiroth reluctantly walks over.
Man with CameraCheeeeese!
He snaps a picture, and Sephiroth walks away immediately after.
Man with CameraGreat, thank you!I'll give each of you a copy once I get it developed!
They start out up the path to Mt. Nibel...
Cloud (narrating)A Mako Reactor was built in Mt. Nibel.The cold air of the mountains of Nibel. It was no different...
If Cloud runs back to town instead of following Tifa...
Tifa's FatherI hate myself for asking you this, but...Don't take your eyes off of Tifa! Hurry up and go back to her side!
GrampsHey, you want to rest?
Cloud- Yes, please- Forget it

Yes, please
GrampsIt's already been paid for. Go on, get some rest.


Forget it
Nothing happens.

ZanganOh? Did you come crying home?
Up on Mount Nibel, Cloud follows Tifa onto a rickety-looking rope bridge.
TifaIt gets harder from here! Follow me!
SoldierLet's hurry.
Cloud and the soldiers start across after her.
TifaUh... the bridge!!
The bridge creaks and then snaps, and they all fall to the rocks below. Cloud and Tifa land near each other and get up. Sephiroth and one of the soldiers come around the bend to join them.
SephirothEveryone seems to be all right. Can we get back to where we were?
TifaThese caves are intertwined, just like an ant farm...Oh, and Sephiroth... There seems to be one person missing...
SephirothIt may sound cold, but we've got no time to search for him. We can't go back now, so we must go on. We'll travel together from here.
They continue on, entering some multi-colored caves.
CloudWhat's this?
TifaA mysteriously colored cave...
SephirothIt must be the Mako energy. This mountain is especially abundant in it. That's why the Mako Reactor was built here.
Coming out of the caves into the light, they find a Mako fountain.
Cloud...And what's this?
SephirothA Mako fountain. It's a miracle of nature.
TifaIt's so beautiful...
She walks up to it.
If the Mako Reactor continues to suck up the energy, this fountain will dry up too...
The others walk over to join her.
SephirothMateria. When you condense Mako energy, materia is produced.It's very rare to be able to see materia in its natural state.
CloudBy the way... Why is it that when you use materia you can also use magic too?
SephirothYou were in SOLDIER and didn't even know that?...the knowledge and wisdom of the Ancients is held in the materia.Anyone with this knowledge can freely use the powers of the Land and the Planet. That knowledge interacts between ourselves and the planet calling up magic...... or so they say.
CloudMagic...... a mysterious power...
SephirothHa, ha, ha!
CloudDid I say somethin' funny?
SephirothA man once told me never to use an unscientific term such as mysterious power! It shouldn't even be called 'magic'!I still remember how angry he was.
CloudWho was that?
SephirothHojo of Shinra, Inc. ... An inexperienced man assigned to take over the work of a great scientist.He was a walking mass of complexes.
TifaA Mako fountain... So this is where the knowledge of the Ancients is.
They continue on and reach the Mako Reactor.
TifaWe finally made it. We sure took the long way though.
CloudTifa, you wait here.
TifaI'm going inside too! I wanna see!
Cloud shakes his head.
SephirothOnly authorized people are allowed in. This place is full of Shinra's industrial secrets.
TifaBut!
Sephiroth turns to the soldier.
SephirothTake care of the lady.
The soldier nods and moves to block Tifa's way up the stairs as Cloud and Sephiroth go on inside.
TifaMm, man!Better take real good care of me then!
Beyond the initial entry over the Mako pit, there is a large chamber. Inside are a number of strange pods, and at the top of some stairs there is a door marked Jenova. Sephiroth is standing before it, shaking his head. Cloud joins him.
CloudThis is...... Jenova, right? The lock won't open...
Sephiroth goes down the stairs and Cloud follows.
SephirothThis is the reason for the malfunction. This part is broken.Cloud, close the valve.Did you close the valve?
Cloud closes the valve.
SephirothWhy did it break...?
He pulls himself up to look in the window of one of the pods.
...now I see, Hojo.But, even doing this, will never put you on the same level as Professor Gast.This is a system that condenses and freezes the Mako energy... that is, when it's working correctly.Now... what does Mako energy become when it's further condensed?
CloudUh, umm...... Oh yeah! It becomes a Materia.
SephirothRight, normally. But Hojo put something else in there. ...Take a look.Look through the window.
Cloud pulls himself up to look. Upon seeing the monster inside, he falls back.
CloudWh... what is this!?
SephirothNormal members of SOLDIER are humans that have been showered with Mako.You're different from the others, but still human.But, what are they? They've been exposed to a high degree of Mako, far more than you.
Cloud gets to his feet.
Cloud...is this some kind of monster?
SephirothExactly. And it's Hojo of Shinra that produced these monsters.Mutated living organisms produced by Mako energy. That's what these monster's really are.
CloudNormal members of SOLDIER? You mean you're different?
Sephiroth clutches his head as though in pain.
CloudH... hey, Sephiroth!
SephirothN... no.........Was I?
He starts slashing at the pods with the Masamune, and Cloud leaps back.
Sephiroth...Was I created this way too?Am I the same as all these monsters......
Cloud...Sephiroth.
SephirothYou saw it! All of them... were humans...
CloudHuman!? No way!
Sephiroth...I've always felt since I was small...That I was different from the others. Special, in some way.But... not like this...
He twists to look as one of the monsters suddenly bursts out of its pod and lies moaning. The scene fades.
Cloud (narrating)Am I...... human?I didn't quite understand what Sephiroth was saying at that time.I was even more surprised by the fact that Shinra was producing monsters.
Cloud goes to the second floor of the inn to find Sephiroth standing by a window, staring out. While they're talking, the infantryman from the square comes up the stairs and enters the room.
The next day, Cloud wakes late and runs out to join Sephiroth and the two soldiers at the start of the mountain path, just past the mansion. A few of the townsfolk are hanging around, too.
If Cloud goes back to the inn instead...
Inside the house next to the inn...
Flash of white. The woman disappears. The same dialogue from earlier repeats and Cloud is standing back outside.
Inside the house next to Tifa's...
If you try to enter the mansion...
If you try to go past them up the mountain path...
Tifa comes running up while he's speaking.
Cloud and Tifa both pose in front of the mansion. Sephiroth reluctantly walks over.
He snaps a picture, and Sephiroth walks away immediately after.
They start out up the path to Mt. Nibel...
If Cloud runs back to town instead of following Tifa...
Nothing happens.
Up on Mount Nibel, Cloud follows Tifa onto a rickety-looking rope bridge.
Cloud and the soldiers start across after her.
The bridge creaks and then snaps, and they all fall to the rocks below. Cloud and Tifa land near each other and get up. Sephiroth and one of the soldiers come around the bend to join them.
They continue on, entering some multi-colored caves.
Coming out of the caves into the light, they find a Mako fountain.
The others walk over to join her.
They continue on and reach the Mako Reactor.
Cloud shakes his head.
Sephiroth turns to the soldier.
The soldier nods and moves to block Tifa's way up the stairs as Cloud and Sephiroth go on inside.
Beyond the initial entry over the Mako pit, there is a large chamber. Inside are a number of strange pods, and at the top of some stairs there is a door marked Jenova. Sephiroth is standing before it, shaking his head. Cloud joins him.
Sephiroth goes down the stairs and Cloud follows.
Cloud closes the valve.
Cloud pulls himself up to look. Upon seeing the monster inside, he falls back.
Cloud gets to his feet.
Sephiroth clutches his head as though in pain.
He starts slashing at the pods with the Masamune, and Cloud leaps back.
He twists to look as one of the monsters suddenly bursts out of its pod and lies moaning. The scene fades.
Nothing special happens.
Flashback scene: Cloud and the soldier join Zangan, Tifa, Tifa's father, and the man with the camera at the gate to the Shinra mansion. Cloud looks around at all of them, nods, and proceeds to the mansion. He can turn back to talk to them, but they bar his path into the rest of the village.
Cloud goes inside on his own and finds the soldier outside one of the bedrooms.
Cloud goes into the room and finds the hidden door that leads down into the basement. At the end of the hall is a library, where he finds Sephiroth pacing while he reads.
Cloud approaches him.
Cloud leaves the library.
Cloud wakes in another bedroom of the Shinra mansion. He walks across the mansion to the basement entrance.
Cloud goes down to the basement and down the hall to the library.
Cloud continues to the study in the back, where he finds Sephiroth seated behind the desk.
Sephiroth stands.
Sephiroth leaves the library. Cloud runs out of the mansion after him, only to find the village below in flames. Trying to walk through the flames to the north will trigger a voice.
Cloud starts into the village.
Cloud nods.
Cloud runs into his house, but comes out again right after, shaking his head.
Cloud turns to see Sephiroth cutting down villagers with the Masamune. Sephiroth turns and walks away through the flames. Cloud runs after him. He arrives at the Mako reactor to find Tifa kneeling by her father's body. The Masamune lies nearby.
She takes up Sephiroth's sword and runs inside. Sephiroth is standing before the door to Jenova's chamber.
Tifa approaches with the Masamune.
She climbs the stairs and raises the sword over her head to attack him, but Sephiroth pulls the Masamune from her grasp and slashes her. She falls down the stairs, landing near Cloud as he runs in. The door to Jenova's chamber opens, and Sephiroth turns and enters. Cloud kneels to gather Tifa in his arms.
He carries her to the side and sets her down, then runs inside Jenova's chamber to confront Sephiroth.
He reaches up and tears off the mechanical angel figure from the front of Jenova's glass tank, revealing Jenova itself inside.
Cloud and Sephiroth face off, and the screen goes white.
Barret runs down the stairs.
Cloud, Aeris, and Tifa head downstairs.
They all join Barret downstairs.
Cloud and the others leave the inn.
With that as their first clue, Cloud and the others set out across the grasslands.
Travelling across the grasslands from Kalm, Cloud and the others come across a chocobo farm. In a pen outside, several chocobos are walking about.
The chocobos perform a sort of waltz.
They go inside the house, where they find the owner of the farm.
If Cloud enters the bedroom...
Cloud goes to the stables, where two children are tending to the chocobos.
Back to the tutorial menu; Cloud can ask any of his initial questions again.
Back to the tutorial menu; Cloud can ask any of his initial questions again.
If you talk to him again...
After leaving the farm, Cloud catches a chocobo and they cross the marshes, avoiding the Midgar Zolom. On reaching the other side, they find the giant snake impaled on a dead tree and stop to stare.
Moving on past this display of power, they enter the Mythril Mines. After navigating through the tunnels, they come across an open cave, where they run into Rude of the Turks.
They make their way for the exits. Rude turns back.
If Aeris is in the party...
If Aeris is not in the party...
Tseng leaves, and Cloud and the others continue out of the mines.
Passing through the forests on the way to Junon, they run into a "mystery ninja," who attacks them. After being defeated, she lies on the ground with the party standing around her. There's a save point nearby.
* Note: Because you can pick up Yuffie at almost any time in the game, I've included every character's reaction here.
Cloud walks to the save point.
After exiting the Menu screen, they find that the ninja has disappeared.
YuffieHaa----ah! Gotcha! And you deserve it, too!

BarretHey, we been had! And... my money!
AerisHmm... Hey, don't we have less money than what we had?
TifaShe's gone... What is it with her?Hey! My money!
Red XIIIHey! My emergency money!
Cait SithGil, gil, gil, where's my gil!?
Vincent...... Difficult to understand her motivation.Hmm? ......pretty fast.
CidWhat the--!? Gone! It's gone! My money's gone!

200 Gil Stolen!

BarretShit!! Gimme back my money!!
AerisGeez!! You shouldn't do this!!
TifaWait a second! Where's my money!?
Red XIIIGive... give back what is rightfully mine!
Cait SithHey, you can't--! My gil, give it back--!
VincentThe Gil doesn't seem to be her real objective...
CidSteal MY money, will ya? You got a lot of #&^%$ nerve!!Just remember who you're dealin' with, punk!!


After exiting the Menu screen, they find that the ninja has disappeared.
Cloud walks over to Yuffie.
Yuffie sits up.
She jumps up.
After you select her name, she's gone.
Cloud and the others just start walking away.
Yuffie runs off.
With the eventual addition of another party member, Cloud and the others continue on their way.
On the way to Junon, Cloud and the others may happen across the entrance to Fort Condor.
* Note: Because they can bypass Fort Condor, it's possible to come for the first time at later points in the game, including while Tifa is the party leader, in which case the dialogue is slightly different. Red XIII also has slightly different dialogue after completing the events at Cosmo Canyon.
On the way to Junon...
If the party has already been to Junon...
Cloud and the others go inside. They find the man by himself in the shed at the top of the fort, looking out the window.
Cloud has a look out the window. A huge condor is nesting close to the Mako reactor that sits atop Fort Condor's hill.
With Cloud as the party leader...
Cloud's companions don't say anything.
With Tifa as the party leader...
With Cloud as the party leader...
If you talk to him again...
With Tifa as the party leader...
After agreeing to help, the shopkeepers will sell their goods and their dialogue is different.
If you go below to the bedroom...
Cloud goes back up to the shed.
If he didn't agree to help...
If he did agree to help...
If at length Cloud decides to enter the battle...
The battle begins, with Shinra troops climbing the hill towards the reactor, Fort Condor's defenders in the way.
If they defeat the enemy...
If the enemy reaches the shed...
Cloud runs outside to fight the commander.
If they win the battle...
If they lose the battle...
On subsequent visits:
If it's been a while since your last visit:
Cloud and the others leave Fort Condor and head for Junon.
Cloud and the others arrive at Junon, walking into the old part of the town, grey and nearly lifeless. At the far end of the little street is an elevator to the upper city guarded by a single Shinra soldier.
Inside the Weapon Shop...
Back outside...
Cloud goes down to the beach, where a little girl is playing with a dolphin.
A sea serpent approaches from deeper out in the ocean.
She runs out into the water, the serpent attacks her, and she falls unconscious.
They fight and defeat the sea monster, and then Cloud carries Priscilla ashore.
If Cloud inhales for too long without giving her CPR:
Eventually Cloud manages to resuscitate the girl.
He picks her up and carries her off. Cloud follows, going up to Priscilla's house.
Cloud and the others follow the woman into her house.
Cloud and the others turn in for a while.
Cloud wakes to find Tifa standing nearby. There is muffled but lively music in the background.
Cloud follows her outside.
Cloud finds the others all gathered at the stairs leading up to Priscilla's house.
Cloud starts up the steps and Priscilla comes out of her house.
She runs for the water, but the others hang back.
The others disperse, ignoring him. Barret stands near the fisherman, Tifa and Aeris stand talking to each other, and Red XIII and Yuffie stand together.
Cloud goes down to the beach where Priscilla is waiting.
She blows a whistle and the dolphin jumps. Barret comes down to join them.
Priscilla repeats her explanation.
Cloud goes into the water to begin the jumping-to-the-top-of-the-pole ordeal.
Eventually the dolphin jumps Cloud to the top of the pole, and he climbs up to the Shinra airfield, where the Highwind is. He enters the base to find a group of soldiers running out to the street.
If Cloud tries to run out...
Cloud enters the locker room.
Cloud changes into the Shinra uniform.
Cloud shrugs.
Two soldiers run in.
Another soldier runs in.
Elsewhere, in the streets...
The parade begins. Back to Cloud: The commander, the two soldiers, and Cloud walk out onto an empty street.
If Cloud tries to run away...
They go through an alley connecting to the street on which the parade is going by.
If Cloud turns around to talk to him instead...
If Cloud stands there unmoving...
If Cloud attempts to run off-screen...
If Cloud runs into the parade in the wrong way...
Cloud manages to sneak into the parade as instructed.
If the ratings are below 30%...
If the ratings are between 31-40%...
If the ratings are between 41-50%...
If the ratings are over 50%...
Cloud and the others join a group of soldiers drilling in front of Rufus and Heidegger.
The soldiers finish their show. Heidegger turns to Rufus.
Rufus turns and climbs up into the lift into the base. Heidegger turns to his group and charges. Everyone but Cloud flees. Heidegger punches Cloud and then runs after Rufus. The soldiers gather around Cloud.
The soldiers leave, and the commander walks up to Cloud.
The commander takes Cloud back to the locker room.
The two soldiers come back in.
The soldiers practice the send off.
Cloud practices with them.
If Cloud goes back down the elevator...
He gets back on the elevator to the upper city.
Cloud enters the shop.
Next door...
In the bar below, Rude is smoking at a table with a group of bald men.
In the item shop...
Inside the barracks...
Cloud goes downstairs to the Respectable Inn.
If Cloud doesn't have any potions in his inventory...
Cloud will then proceed with his explanation.
If Cloud has already gotten a free potion from the ghost...
Cloud's tutorials are otherwise identical to those he gives in Sector 7's Beginner's Hall.
On up to the third floor...
Cloud goes on towards the port...
Inside Shinra's member bar...
Inside Junon Inn...
Cloud rests.
On the second floor...
Cloud enters the Materia Shop.
Cloud leaves the shop.
On the third floor...
Inside another barracks...
On the second floor...
Inside the Weapons Shop...
Cloud finally goes to the dock and lines up with the other soldiers. Red XIII is watching from just inside the ship's cargo hold.
A door opens and Rufus and Heidegger emerge.
Cloud and the soldiers perform the send-off exercises they practiced earlier.
If they did well...
If they did okay...
If they did poorly...
Three of the soldiers leave, but one runs onto the ship.
Inside the cargo hold, Red XIII is just visible.
Instead of following the others away from the dock, Cloud, too, sneaks onto the ship.
In the cargo hold, there are a few others in Shinra uniform. The sailors are busy with various tasks and the soldiers are apparently standing guard...
Cloud jumps back, and moves on to find the others.
Cloud goes up to the deck. He finds Tifa up on the lookout tower.
Or, if Cloud doesn't have enough gil...
An item shop menu opens.
Nothing happens.
A soldier stands blocking the way to the front of the ship.
Back in the cargo hold...
Cloud goes back up to find Barret just outside the bridge, watching Rufus and Heidegger through the window.
Barret and Cloud join the others gathered on the deck of the ship.
Cloud the others go down into the cargo hold, where two sailors and a soldier lie motionless on the floor.
Cloud enters the engine room and walks up to the one soldier still standing.
The man turns around and collapses.
Sephiroth rises up through the floor of the engine room.
Sephiroth flies off through the ceiling, and Cloud's party enters a battle with JenovaBIRTH, fighting and defeating it. A small tentacle-like piece remains after the battle.
The others start for the exit. Cloud turns back to look at where Sephiroth was.
The cargo ship continues on to dock at Costa del Sol.
The cargo ship arrives in Costa del Sol, and everyone gets off. Yuffie runs over to talk to one of the locals before joining the group.
Cloud leaves the dock, and Shinra's helicopter lands on the helipad as Rufus and Heideggar get off the ship.
He walks to the helicopter, and Heidegger charges the sailors, throwing them into the ocean. The helicopter takes off.
Back to Cloud. If he goes back to the harbor...
Back to the town...
Cloud enters a nearby villa, and finds a suited man resting in the bedroom.
If by chance Cloud actually has the money to buy the villa...
In the basement, there is a man sleeping at his desk amidst bunch of crates.
In the corner pub, from whose window a woman peeks out occasionally.
Back outside...
Nearby, Red XIII is sitting in the shade, hitting a soccer ball around with two kids.
If Cloud kicks the soccer ball at Red XIII, he'll jump up and growl at him.
If Red XIII is in your party, the kids are playing by themselves.
If Yuffie is in your party, Butch is tending the shop by himself.
Inside the inn, Barret is in the bathroom in his sailor outfit, posing in front of the mirror.
Barret runs out of the bathroom.
Cloud shrugs, and Barret runs back into the bathroom.
If Cloud chooses not to stay yet:
If Barret is in your party...
Inside Johnny's house, Johnny is standing around nervously and someone is taking a bath in the bathroom.
* Note: Johnny's lines here are poorly translated. He should be identifying Cloud as an ex-SOLDIER and Tifa's childhood friend. Johnny himself was not in SOLDIER and does not come from Nibelheim.
Down at the beach...
If Tifa or Aeris are in the party...
If Tifa and Aeris are not in the party...
Cloud runs over to where Hojo is lying in a lounge chair, surrounded by three women in bikinis.
The others run over to join Cloud.
Cloud nods.
Cloud reaches for his sword.
Red XIII collapses, and Cloud shakes his head.
Hojo sits down again.
Red XIII collapses again.
Inside Johnny's new house, Tifa is talking with him, the two of them sitting across from each other on the beds.
Cloud enters the room, and both Tifa and Johnny turn to look at him.
Back at the inn, Aeris is lying on one of the beds.
Cloud and the others spend the night.
After spending the night...
Back at the beach...
In Johnny's house, Johnny's sleeping, and the woman is still in the bathroom.
Cloud and the others leave Costa del Sol and make for Corel.
Cloud the others make their way through the Corel Mountains. On the way up Mt. Corel, they run across an old man.
Cloud and his party continue up Mt. Corel and on past the Mako reactor. They follow the train tracks through the mountains and find the others gathered near a raised bridge.
An arrow appears, pointing to the shack and proclaiming, "The shack is here!! (^^);"
Cloud heads for the shack. If Aeris or Tifa are not in the party, they start jumping up and down as Cloud passes on the track above.
Further down, Cloud enters the tiny shack.
Cloud turns the switch, and the others run across the bridge to go on ahead. Climbing up from near the shack, the party finds a bird's nest full of Phoenix Down.
Cloud and the others fight the mother Cokatolis.
They return to cross the bridge and move on. Inside a cave, there's a man lying in his bulldozer.
The train tracks eventually dead-end into the camp of North Corel.
If Barret is in the party...
Barret walks over to where a trio of men have gathered. One of them punches him.
If Barret is not in the party...
Cloud and the others find him already accosted by the three men. One of them punches him.
The three men nod and disperse. Barret walks back to the others.
They let it be and continue through the town.
Inside a tent...
Inside another tent...
In the house made of scrap...
Back outside...
If Cloud leaves North Corel and attempts to cross the desert on foot...
Cloud the others continue to the ropeway station.
Flashback to the town of Corel. A Shinra soldier stands guard outside the Mayor's house as townspeople hurry inside.
Inside the house, a group of men are gathered. Scarlet and two Shinra employees stand before them.
Dyne stands up.
The scene changes to show Corel in flames.
She, Aeris, and Red XIII get on, and the ropeway leaves the station.
They eventually get on the ropeway and it leaves the station.
Cloud and the others take the Ropeway from North Corel up to Gold Saucer.
If Cloud attempts to enter without paying, he's stopped by the admissions lady.
Moving on through the entrance, they find themselves in the central hub of Gold Saucer, called the Station.
If Cloud tries to leave the Station alone, one of them will run up to him...
Cloud chooses one member of the group to accompany him, and they set off to explore Gold Saucer. At Chocobo Square... A bunch of Shinra soldiers are gathered on the steps.
The soldiers disperse to different areas of the Gold Saucer, and after a moment Cloud heads up the stairs.
Nothing happens.
At Battle Square, there is a staff woman standing in front of the stairs.
At Ghost Square, a zombie greets Cloud as he enters the hotel.
Cloud steps up to the counter, and a man in a noose drops down with a scream.
If Cloud attempts to go upstairs without paying...
At Round Square...
Cloud selects a companion.
Cloud and his companion ride the gondola.
If Cloud does not have enough GP to pay.
At Speed Square, a muscular man addresses Cloud when he arrives.
Onward to the roller coaster. If Cloud tries to get on without buying a ticket...
If Cloud does not have enough GP to pay.
Otherwise
Cloud and the others ride the coaster.
If Cloud scored 3000-4999 points...
If Cloud scored 5000+ points...
Sometimes after coming off the roller coaster, Cloud will walk to the side and hang his head.
Cloud's current 3 high scores are displayed.
Stepping back into the hallway, Cloud may encounter a couple standing there.
The next time Cloud sees the couple...
Sometimes a pair of children will appear running towards the coaster.
At Event Square, the stands are empty except for some staff members and two couples sitting around.
At Wonder Square, Cloud and his companion are approached by a black cat toy riding a giant stuffed moogle.
He shakes about on his moogle, and it then hands Cloud a fortune.
Cloud plays Mog House.
Mog tries to fly and falls on his face.
Cloud feeds Mog Kupo nuts, and he hops up again.
If Cloud fed him the wrong number of nuts...
He falls flat on his face again.
If Cloud fed him the right number of nuts...
Mog takes off and makes a few circuits around the screen.
Mog lands and returns to his house, taking a bow before going inside.
A pink moogle appears.
She approaches Mog's house and knocks. Mog comes out and chirps.
Cloud feeds Mog Kupo nuts, and he hops up again.
If Cloud fed Mog the wrong number of nuts...
He falls on his face again.
If Cloud fed him the right number of nuts...
Mog takes off and makes a few circuits around the screen.
The screen goes dark.
Mog steps out of his house.
Mog and Mag leave the house and walk off screen.
No fewer than 12 baby moogles exit the house. The last one trips and falls on his face. One of the others comes back for him and they run off.
The game ends.
If Cloud tries to leave Gold Saucer via the Ropeway...
Returning to Battle Square, Cloud and the others arrive to find a Shinra soldier standing in front of the stairs.
The soldier collapses, and Cloud goes over to investigate.
Cloud runs off up the stairs.
The others follow him up to the battle arena, where four more soldiers lie dead, and the staff members are slumped at their counters.
One of the Gold Saucer staffers stirs.
Cloud and the others run over to her.
Dio enters with two security guards.
Cloud follows Cait Sith into the arena.
Robots approach them from three sides, and Dio blocks the way back out... The scene changes to where Cloud is being held by one of the robots. Before him is a hatch labeled "Gateway to heaven."
The hatch opens, and the robot jumps in, carrying Cloud with it.
Cloud lands in the prison town below Gold Saucer.
The third party member turns around suddenly to notice Barret a ways off.
They all run over to Barret. Near him is a corpse.
Cloud kneels down by the corpse.
If Cloud tries to run out into the desert...
Cloud and the others follow Barret. A man starts following them.
Inside the trailer...
At the prison pub...
Finally, Cloud, Cait Sith, and the third party member enter the mayor's old house. Barret bursts in after them.
Barret fires, and a man behind the couch collapses.
Cloud shrugs, and the others run in.
Barret shakes his head violently.
Flashback. Barret and Dyne are walking along the train tracks that lead to North Corel.
Barret and Dyne turn to one another and nod. They run to an overlook where they can see the village burning.
They start back towards the village.
Shinra soldiers enter and shoot the village headman.
Barret and Dyne make a run for it, and the soldiers start shooting at them.
Scarlet punches one of the soldiers off the bridge, and the others hold their hands up.
Dyne jumps in front of Barret, gets shot, and falls over the edge of the cliff. Barret catches his hand.
The spray of bullets crosses their joined hands, and Barret loses his grip. Dyne falls into the ravine.
Cloud and the others go back to the north gate to find the man there dead.
They head out into the desert.
If Cloud gets himself lost in the desert, eventually a mysterious chocobo carriage will appear.
Going northeast, they come across a junkyard, and beyond it they find the ruins of a house and two crude grave markers on the edge of a ravine. Dyne is slumped there. Barret steps forward, gesturing for the others to stay back.
He starts forward, but Dyne fires at his feet, and Barret stops.
Barret fights and defeats Dyne, who falls to his knees.
Dyne lets himself fall backwards over the edge as Barret runs towards him.
Back at the trailer...
Barret grabs Mr. Coates by the collar.
Barret releases him.
Cloud shrugs.
A girl walks in, wearing a pink dress and a chocobo feather in her hair.
On the elevator...
The elevator reaches the top, and Cloud steps out.
All the jockeys leave, but Cloud stays behind. Eventually Ester returns.
If Cloud loses the race...
If it is Cloud's 1st or 2nd loss...
If Cloud has lost 3 times...
If Cloud has lost 4 or more times...
Eventually Cloud wins a race.
His PHS rings, and he answers it.
Cloud and the others leave via their new buggy, headed South towards Gongaga.
Cloud enters the forest surrounding Gongaga.
* Note: Because the party can trigger these events by visiting Gongaga any time before getting the Keystone, Vincent and Cid's responses are included here as well. Red XIII also has slightly different dialogue after completing the events at Cosmo Canyon.
Farther along the path, Reno and Rude stand talking.
Rude turns away.
Elena comes up from behind him, and he turns around in surprise.
If coming any time before the Wutai sidequest...
If coming after encountering the Turks in Wutai...
Cloud and the others fight and defeat Reno and Rude.
Rude and Reno each check their watches and run off.
The right fork of the path leads to the ruins of a Mako reactor.
A helicopter lands outside the reactor, and Scarlet and Tseng get off.
He runs and hides in the rubble. Scarlet enters the reactor, Tseng following.
She walks back towards the helicopter, and Tseng follows.
Cloud goes back and takes the left fork, which leads to the village. Along the path there, there is a cemetery.
Cloud enters the village and looks beyond to the reactor in the distance.
Inside the weapons shop...
The shop menu opens.
Up the pole...
In the Item Shop...
At the inn...
At the Mayor's house...
The party enters the house of an older couple, Zack's parents.
If neither Aeris nor Tifa are in the party...
If both Aeris and Tifa are in the party...
If only Aeris is in the party...
If only Tifa is in the party...
Cloud talks to Aeris.
He turns away.
Cloud talks to Tifa.
Back at Zack's house.
Cloud and the others leave Gongaga and continue westward.
The party may choose to stop at Cosmo Canyon, but if they attempt to bypass it instead, the buggy sparks.
It continues to spark and then breaks down. Cloud gets out.
They head to the nearby village of Cosmo Canyon in search of a mechanic. Red XIII runs ahead when they reach the gate.
Red XIII runs on up a staircase along the side of the canyon.
Cloud and the others approach the gate.
Red XIII comes back down the stairs.
* Note: From this point on, that's how I'll refer to him. It's his name, after all.
Cloud and the others enter the village and go up to where Nanaki is waiting on the stairway landing.
The others all wander off.
Cloud finds Tifa and Aeris at the pub.
Upstairs is the inn.
After spending the night...
Back outside...
If the buggy broke down...
He walks out through the gate.
If Cloud and the others chose to stop...
At the Tiger Lily Weapons shop...
In the Elder's Room...
In the Materia shop...
Inside a woman's living quarters...
If Cait Sith is in the party...
Cloud continues on up to the observatory, where Nanaki and Bugenhagen are.
A throbbing noise starts up.
A keening noise joins the throbbing.
Cloud runs off to invite someone.
Back to the observatory...
Cloud enters the room housing the machine. If he tries to activate the machine himself...
Cloud approaches Bugenhagen.
Cloud gets on the machine, and Bugenhagen switches it on. The platform lifts, taking them up to an interactive model of the solar system.
Cloud and the others watch the model for a while.
On the Planet model, a man is born, and dies. His spirit energy enters the Lifestream and forms a tree elsewhere. The tree dies and returns to the Lifestream. A new man is born, and dies, etc. Eventually the Lifestream covers the entire Planet.
Bugenhagen takes all the Spirit energy away and the Planet model crumbles and dies.
Cloud and the others leave to explore the place further.
In the Pub...
Cloud joins his friends by the Candle.
Cloud and the others join Bugenhagen by the sealed door.
If you try to go back out...
They enter the cave and climb to the bottom. After passing through the first chamber, Bugenhagen stops in the doorway.
They continue on through the second chamber, and Bugenhagen stops again.
They move through the third chamber.
They enter the final chamber, where an evil-looking face is blocking the far exit.
Cloud and the others fight the Gi Nattak.
They continue out of the cave.
Nanaki looks up to where Seto stands on the cliff above, turned to stone.
Cloud nods and leaves the cave.
Back outside, the others are gathered around the Cosmo Canyon.
Nothing happens.
Nothing happens.
Cloud starts for the gate, and Nanaki comes running after him.
Cloud and the others return to the buggy and continue north.
Cloud and the others arrive at Nibelheim, only to find the town almost exactly as it looked before the incident five years ago.
If Tifa is in the party...
If Tifa is not in the party...
At the inn...
In the kitchen is a hunched figure in a black cape.
In the neighboring store...
By the furnace is another clone.
At Cloud's house...
At Tifa's house...
In the kitchen...
In Tifa's parents' bedroom...
In Tifa's room... Cloud walks to the piano.
If Cloud plays all the notes on the piano 3 times...
On Tifa's desk is a report.
In the neighboring house's attic...
Cloud looks back and forth between them and sighs.
Outside the Shinra mansion are another two clones.
Inside the mansion...
At the safe on the second floor...
Cloud opens the safe and fights the Lost Number.
The party heads down to the basement. Using the key, they enter the room with the coffins and approach the closed one in the center.
* Note: Because it's possible to get Vincent after Cid joins the party, I've included his responses here as well. It's also possible to recruit Vincent while Tifa or Cid are the party leader, so their responses are included along with Cloud's.
Cloud talks about Sephiroth.
Vincent leaps from the coffin and lands on its edge.
Cloud gestures as he tells his story.
* Note: Vincent's comment here is likely a translation error and should have been something like "So five years ago, Sephiroth learned that he had been created?"
Nothing happens.
Cloud and Tifa shake their heads.
Vincent lies back down.
Cloud and the others start back down the hallway.
Moving onward to the library, they find Sephiroth standing in the hallway leading to the study.
Sephiroth throws a materia orb at Cloud and then flies past him out of the library.
Back outside the mansion...
Cloud and the others leave Nibelheim to cross the mountains after Sephiroth.
After passing through the Nibel Mountains, Cloud and the others reach Rocket Town.
In the Weapons Shop...
At the Shanghai Inn...
If Cloud goes behind the counter to speak to the innkeeper...
Cloud shrugs.
Back outside...
Inside the house on the left...
Inside the Item Shop...
Inside the house on the right...
At Cid's house... Cloud and the others go out to the back yard to find a plane.
Shera comes out of the house behind them.
Cloud goes to the rocket, and finds Cid inside.
If Cloud leaves the rocket and comes back to ask him a second time...
Back at the inn...
Cloud and the others return to Cid's house.
Cid enters.
In flashback, Cid is watching Shera as she inspects the rocket's oxygen tanks.
Cid joins his crew outside the cockpit.
A red light starts flashing.
In the engine section, Shera is still checking the oxygen tanks.
Back in the cockpit...
The rocket starts to take off, but the engine stalls immediately and the rocket falls back onto the launch pad. It tilts, creaking, and comes to a stop.
Cid returns.
Cid sits down and props one foot up on the table.
Palmer comes in.
Cloud steps outside.
Cloud follows her back inside and she shuts the door behind them.
Cloud nods.
Cloud and the others go out back to find Palmer on the wing of the Tiny Bronco.
Cloud and the others fight Palmer.
Meanwhile the Tiny Bronco is still revving up.
They climb aboard the Tiny Bronco as it takes off with an empty cockpit. As it swoops by Cid and Rufus, Shinra soldiers start firing at it, and Cid jumps on.
The plane crashes into the ocean and drifts to a stop.
Cloud and the others head for land, the closest just happening to be the Wutai continent to the west.
Cloud and the others land the Tiny Bronco on the shores of Wutai and start making their way north. On a hilltop, Yuffie runs ahead and stands in their way.
* Note: Because this is an optional sidequest, it is also possible to do it when either Tifa or Cid are the party leader, so their responses are included along with Cloud's.
Also, while it is possible to enter Wutai before obtaining Yuffie, there is no unique dialogue. The NPCs simply won't mention her, and the Turks will not be present. Likewise, if you enter for the first time on Disc 3, even with Yuffie, the materia sidequest will not trigger.
Shinra soldiers run in.
The soldiers run to attack Cloud and the others, and Yuffie runs off in the confusion.
If Yuffie was in the party, either Barret or Nanaki will come running up, depending on which wasn't with you.
They all look around.
If Cloud tries to get back in the Tiny Bronco to leave...
They go north and arrive in Wutai, where they immediately spot Yuffie.
Outside Yuffie's house..
In the Weapons shop...
The local pub, Turtle's Paradise... Outside is a flyer.
Cloud walks up to the Turks - Reno, Rude, and Elena - who are drinking at a table.
Cloud and the others ready their weapons. Reno and Rude don't move.
She sits back down, and Cloud relaxes.
Outside the Item Shop, a little kid is running around.
In the Item Shop...
Cloud opens the nearby treasure chest.
Yuffie jumps down from above.
Cloud continues up the path towards Godo's house.
Inside the pagoda...
If Cloud tries to run upstairs...
Inside Godo's house, they find Godo lying on a futon.
She runs out and into the shrine down the hall. Godo starts to chase after her, but gives up and returns to his room.
At the old man's house...
Cloud pushes aside a screen to reveal Yuffie hiding behind it.
If Cloud tries to leave Wutai...
Outside the Turtle's Paradise, there is a barrel that's wiggling. Cloud and the others position themselves near the escape routes and then open it. Yuffie jumps out and tries to get away, but finds herself surrounded.
She leads them to her house, just as two Shinra soldiers run into Turtle's Paradise.
There is a pause. Reno says nothing.
The two soldiers run out. One comes back momentarily.
At Yuffie's house...
Regardless of which lever he pulls, a cage comes down atop the party members.
She runs off. If Cloud tries to run after her without helping the others...
Cloud frees the others from the cage and they go looking for her.At the Turtle's Paradise...
If you have now obtained all 6 Turtles Paradise flyers...
Cloud goes to the bell near Godo's house to find the gate open. When he rings the bell, a hidden door opens. Going inside, he finds Yuffie being abducted by a man in black.
Corneo and his lackeys run off. If Cloud leaves and enters Godo's house from the front, he finds two Shinra soldiers blocking the way into the shrine.
On following Corneo up from the hidden room into the shrine, three Shinra soldiers cut Corneo off.
Corneo runs to the side, and the soldiers attack Cloud and the others instead. Back outside Godo's house, they find Reno and Rude.
Rude nods and runs off.
Cloud arrives at Da-chao.
Following Reno up the mountain...
Following Rude, they find him outside the fire caves...
If Cloud tries to proceed through the fire caves...
In the end they find Corneo holding Yuffie and Elena tied to the face of a statue, observing them from the palm of the statue's hand.
Cloud and the others run in.
Cloud and the others fight and defeat Rapps.
Corneo pushes a button and Elena and Yuffie flip upside down.
Enter Reno.
Rude runs in from behind and throws something at Corneo, who falls to the edge of the hand.
Reno walks over to Corneo and steps on his fingers.
Reno's cell phone rings, and he answers it.
Cloud and the others ready their weapons.
Back at Yuffie's house. She darts around putting the materia back in its slots.
Behind her back, Cloud and the others exchange looks.
Cloud and the others walk out.
After everything has died down, they can go back to Wutai so Yuffie can climb the pagoda.
In the Weapons Shop...
Cloud and the others enter the pagoda.
If Yuffie is in the party and they try to proceed to the second floor without fighting...
A boy runs down from upstairs.
Yuffie fights Gorky.
If she loses...
If she wins...
Shake goes upstairs. If Cloud returns to talk to Gorky without Yuffie in the party...
On the second floor, without Yuffie...
Once Yuffie proceeds to the second floor, she can try to go to the next floor prematurely...
Once Yuffie decides to fight, a woman comes down from upstairs.
Yuffie fights Shake.
If she loses...
If she wins...
Chekhov goes upstairs. If Cloud returns to talk to Shake without Yuffie in the party...
On the third floor, without Yuffie...
Once Yuffie proceeds to the third floor, she can try to go to the next floor prematurely...
A man comes down from the fourth floor.
Yuffie fights Chekhov.
If she loses...
If she wins...
Staniv goes upstairs. If Cloud returns to talk to Chekhov without Yuffie in the party...
On the fourth floor, without Yuffie...
Once Yuffie proceeds to the fourth floor, she can try to go to the next floor prematurely...
The door closes.
StanivThe rule is the best fighter on each floor will be your opponent... Although it's a five-storied pagoda, the fourth floor is the highest...In other words, no one has ever defeated me--Master of Weaponry!You still want to try...?
Yuffie- Just come on!!- I'll pass!

Just come on!!
StanivI like you! Now watch...Weapon Change!


I'll pass!
StanivYou don't seem like the kind of person who can make it to the fourth floor without a problem...

Yuffie fights Staniv.

If she loses...
StanivHow unfortunate! It was over before I could even put all of my strength into it...
YuffieShut up! Shut up! SHADDUP!


If she wins...
StanivWh, what...!?
YuffieOf course!

The others start coming up from the lower floors.
GorkySplendid! Your level and skills have improved...
ShakeOh, ho! You might not be as much of a child as we thought you were!
ChekhovOf course. If WE lost to her...
StanivYou have defeated four of our best, but now you will have to face HIM......!
He goes upstairs, and the others follow. If Cloud proceeds to the fifth floor without Yuffie...
Godo...Hm. You can do it......
Once Yuffie proceeds to the fifth floor, she finds the four of them standing on either side of the room with Godo at the head.
Gorky......
ShakeSh......!
Chekhov...
Staniv......
YuffieD, ...Dad!?
GodoI'm glad you made it this far, Yuffie!
YuffieWhy, why are you......
GodoI'll answer you by having you try your skills against me!Hold nothing back. Come as if you're trying to kill me! If you don't... then I'll have to kill you!
YuffieH... hey!
GodoWhat are you doing! OMNI-Change! ......!!
Yuffie fights Godo.If she loses...
YuffieDammit......
GodoOhhh! And what was that!? Come back when you get more training!
When Yuffie tries again...
YuffieI'll show you this time, you old Fart-meister!
GodoHmm? A slight improvement.Come at me with all you have! OMNI-Change! ......!!
After winning the battle, both lie sprawled on the floor panting.
Yuffie...heave...... heave...
Godo...huff...... puff......
YuffieO... old coot... n...... ot... bad...
GodoYou've...... also...... improved...
YuffieHah... Ha, ha......
Godo...Heh, heh......
YuffieHa ha haaaaaa......!
GodoWaha haaaaa......!
They eventually get up off the floor and compose themselves.
GodoIt's time I gave this to you, Yuffie...This is Leviathan Materia. Take it.
Received "Leviathan" Materia!
StanivBut, Lord Godo. The Leviathan Materia should only be given to the person who conquers and takes over this Pagoda. That is our custom...
YuffieCUSTOM, CUSTOM, CUSTOM... I'm so sick of hearing that!It's so stupid!
GorkySilence, Miss Yuffie!
YuffieThen what 'bout the rest of you? You have all that power...Are you satisfied being cooped up in this tower?
GodoYuffie...!
YuffieYou too, dad...! Just because you lost the war!And turning Wutai into a place like this!
Chekhov...What do you want to say?
YuffieYou turned Wutai into a cheesy resort town peddling to tourists...How dare you!? Da-chao Statue and Leviathan are ashamed!!
Godo...
ShakeShe IS a kid.
YuffieWh, what did you say...!?
GodoYuffie!!Forgive me... It's all my fault...
GorkyWhat are you saying, Lord Godo!
GodoLosing the war... turning Wutai into this. It was all my fault...
ChekhovLord Godo!
GodoSilence!!Yuffie......I am the same now as I was before when I wanted the war.But, after I lost the war, I began to think...Is strength, only for defeating the enemy?...or just something to show-off to others...?Might begets might.That's the same way as the Shinra...
Yuffie......
GodoI knew you were looking for Materia for the good of Wutai.But, the reason I hide my strength now, is also for the good of Wutai...And now, I realize both are necessary...Strength without determination means nothing. And determination without strength is equally useless...!
StanivLord Godo...
GodoYou there, please take Yuffie with you!I perceive that you all have both determination and strength!

BarretJes' don't do nothin' funny to our Materia...!
AerisAll right. We'll take your daughter with us.
Tifa...after that, how can we refuse?
NanakiAs long as she doesn't get in our way...!
Cait SithIf you put it that way, we can't refuse...
VincentHmm... You may come if you want to...
CidWell, just tell yourself you're on a big ship, and leave the rest to ol' Cid!

CloudAll right, I don't mind.
GodoGo, Yuffie!For the sake of strengthening Wutai!
YuffieDad...
GodoI'll take care of the Five Sacred Gods until you return!Go! And come back alive!
Yuffie......Of course!
Everyone else files out, and Yuffie starts to follow them.
GodoYuffie, wait a minute.The Materia they all have...After their battle is over, you think they'll still want it?
YuffieDad...!
GodoGo! Survive till the end! And return!With the Materia!
YuffieHeh, heh... you bet!
She runs off.
Afterwards...
GodoGo! Survive to the end! And return to us!Mat-...Take care of the Materia!!
Or, if Yuffie is not in the party:
Your Mat-...I mean, please look after Yuffie...!
StanivMiss Yuffie. Your feelings for Wutai are the same as Lord Godo's. Always remember that...
Or, if Yuffie is not in the party:
Please take care of Miss Yuffie.
ChekhovFight so that you never bring shame on Wutai.
Or, if Yuffie is not in the party:
She's always like this. It'll be rougher on you.
ShakeYou say there's some unusual materia where the underground pipe is!?But, first you gotta get if from a monster and unless you use your head. You won't be able to do it.
Or, if Yuffie is not in the party:
Did that kid mature at all?
GorkyMiss Yuffie. We pray for your success!
Or, if Yuffie is not in the party:
Oh, you there! How is Miss Yuffie doing?
Cloud and the others leave Wutai and return to their quest.

< Rocket Town | Wutai | The World >

Yuffie fights Staniv.
If she loses...
If she wins...
The others start coming up from the lower floors.
He goes upstairs, and the others follow. If Cloud proceeds to the fifth floor without Yuffie...
Once Yuffie proceeds to the fifth floor, she finds the four of them standing on either side of the room with Godo at the head.
Yuffie fights Godo.If she loses...
When Yuffie tries again...
After winning the battle, both lie sprawled on the floor panting.
They eventually get up off the floor and compose themselves.
Everyone else files out, and Yuffie starts to follow them.
Afterwards...
Cloud and the others leave Wutai and return to their quest.
At the Chocobo Farm...
In the Sleeping man's cave, across the river north of Junon...
If Cloud tries to search his belongings...
If the number of battles fought ends in two even numbers...
If the number of battles fought ends in two odd numbers...
At Junon...
In Lower Junon...
In Priscilla's House, Priscilla is asleep in her bed.
The elevator door opens.
On the Junon Airport Path...
In the weapons shop...
In the bar, Rude is gone but the rest of the bald club remains...
In the barracks, a commander stands reprimanding a soldier.
Cloud can take the lifts up to the base, but soldiers guard the way inside.
On the path to the Underwater Reactor, a group of soldiers is drilling.
Cloud can get on the elevator to the Underwater Reactor.
Cloud gets off the elevator. The two doors leading farther are guarded by soldiers.
Taking the elevator back up...
At the Shinra Member's bar...
Inside Junon Inn...
Cloud and the others rest.
In another barracks...
In the streets just outside the docks...
A helicopter comes.
At Costa del Sol...
Along the streets...
At Johnny's house, after getting the buggy...
Later...
At the beach...
Cloud laughs and puts lotion on her.
Cloud enters the Weapon seller's house.
If he comes before obtaining the Tiny Bronco, the house is empty...
After obtaining the Tiny Bronco...
When checking the wooden chest downstairs:
When checking the wall safe upstairs:
Nothing happens.
If Cloud tries to open something without giving him Mythril...
If Cloud walks to the bed...
At Cosmo Canyon...
On returning to Rocket Town...
At the Shanghai Inn...
Back outside...
At Cid's house, Shera is working on the car inside.
At Bone Village...
Cloud and the others pass through North Corel on their way to Gold Saucer.
They take the Ropeway up to Gold Saucer.
Cloud and the others make their way to Battle Square, which has by now reopened.
Cloud continues on up the steps.
If you talk to him again after hearing his explanation...
Cloud enters Dio's Show Room. Various items rest on pedestals around the room, with plaques labeling them.
In the center display is the Keystone.
Dio enters from behind him.
When Cloud takes him up on the deal, he enters the Battle Arena.
If he completes all 8 battles...
If he does fairly well...
If he does poorly...
When trying to leave Gold Saucer with the keystone, Cloud is intercepted by a staff member.
If Cait Sith is not in the party, he bounces up to join Cloud now.
Cloud explains.
At the hotel, the entire team gathers in the lobby.
Nothing special happens.
Barret scratches his head.
Cloud retires to his room. There comes a knock on the door.
Aeris enters Cloud's room.
Upon arriving together at the Station...
The two of them head for Event Square, where they are greeted immediately.
She runs off after the man. Cloud shrugs and follows. The show opens to an empty stage and the narration begins.
Cloud shakes his head, staring out at the audience.
Cloud points to himself incredulously.
The Evil Dragon King enters carrying Aeris.
Cloud goes to Aeris and kisses her hand.
The cast spins off the stage. Cloud and Aeris follow suit.
Cloud goes to the king and kisses his hand.
She slaps Cloud and he falls over.
The Evil Dragon King enters carrying Aeris.
Cloud runs to the EDK and kisses his hand.
The EDK turns into a black-haired girl.
The cast spins off the stage. Cloud follows, leaving Aeris behind.
The Evil Dragon King enters carrying Aeris.
Cloud goes to Aeris and kisses her hand.
The cast spins off the stage. Cloud and Aeris follow suit.
Cloud runs to the EDK and kisses his hand.
The EDK turns into a black-haired girl.
The cast spins off the stage. Cloud follows, leaving Aeris behind.
Cloud goes to the king and kisses his hand.
The Evil Dragon King enters carrying Aeris.
Cloud runs to the EDK and kisses his hand.
The EDK turns into a black-haired girl.
The cast spins off the stage. Cloud follows, leaving Aeris behind.
After the play is over, Cloud and Aeris return to the Station.
At Round Square, Aeris walks up to the ticket booth.
Cloud and Aeris get on the gondola.
The gondola returns to Round Square, and they get off.
Tifa enters Cloud's room.
Upon arriving together at the Station...
The two of them head for Event Square, where they are greeted immediately.
She runs off after the man. Cloud shrugs and follows. The show opens to an empty stage and the narration begins.
Cloud shakes his head, staring out at the audience.
Cloud points to himself incredulously.
The Evil Dragon King enters carrying Tifa.
Cloud goes to Tifa and kisses her hand.
The cast spins off the stage. Cloud and Tifa follow suit.
Cloud goes to the king and kisses his hand.
The Evil Dragon King enters carrying Tifa.
Cloud runs to the EDK and kisses his hand.
The cast spins off the stage. Cloud follows, leaving Tifa behind.
The Evil Dragon King enters carrying Tifa.
Cloud goes to Tifa and kisses her hand.
The cast spins off the stage. Cloud and Tifa follow suit.
Cloud runs to the EDK and kisses his hand.
The EDK turns into a black-haired girl.
The cast spins off the stage. Cloud follows, leaving Tifa behind.
Cloud goes to the king and kisses his hand.
The Evil Dragon King enters carrying Tifa.
Cloud runs to the EDK and kisses his hand.
The EDK turns into a black-haired girl.
The cast spins off the stage. Cloud follows, leaving Tifa behind.
After the play is over, Cloud and Tifa return to the Station.
At Round Square, Tifa walks up to the ticket booth.
Cloud and Tifa get on the gondola.
The gondola returns to Round Square, and they get off.
Yuffie enters Cloud's room.
Yuffie runs around and starts pushing him out of the room.
Upon arriving together at the Station...
The two of them head for Event Square, where they are greeted immediately.
She runs off after the man. Cloud shrugs and follows. The show opens to an empty stage and the narration begins.
Cloud shakes his head, staring out at the audience.
Cloud points to himself incredulously.
The Evil Dragon King enters carrying Yuffie.
Cloud goes to Yuffie and kisses her hand.
The cast spins off the stage. Cloud and Yuffie follow suit.
Cloud goes to the king and kisses his hand.
The Evil Dragon King enters carrying Yuffie.
Cloud runs to the EDK and kisses his hand.
The EDK turns into a black-haired girl.
The cast spins off the stage. Cloud follows, leaving Yuffie behind.
The Evil Dragon King enters carrying Yuffie.
Cloud goes to Yuffie and kisses her hand.
The cast spins off the stage. Cloud and Yuffie follow suit.
Cloud runs to the EDK and kisses his hand.
The EDK turns into a black-haired girl.
The cast spins off the stage. Cloud follows, leaving Yuffie behind.
Cloud goes to the king and kisses his hand.
The Evil Dragon King enters carrying Yuffie.
Cloud runs to the EDK and kisses his hand.
The EDK turns into a black-haired girl.
The cast spins off the stage. Cloud follows, leaving Yuffie behind.
After the play is over, Cloud and Yuffie return to the Station.
At Round Square, Yuffie walks up to the ticket booth.
Cloud and Yuffie get on the gondola.
Yuffie slaps him.
The gondola returns to Round Square, and they get off.
Cloud nods.
Barret enters Cloud's room.
He turns to leave. Cloud shrugs and follows him out. Upon arriving together at the Station...
The two of them head for Event Square, where they are greeted immediately.
Cloud and Barret return to the Station.
They arrive at Round Square.
Cloud and Barret get on the gondola. They sit for a while without talking, Barret tapping his foot and both with their arms folded.
The gondola returns to Round Square, and they get off.
When Cloud and his date reach the Station, they see Cait Sith there, looking furtive.
Cait Sith pulls out the Keystone.
Cait jumps and runs. If Cloud attempts to do anything besides give chase, his date will stop him. Trying to buy tickets at Speed Square...
Trying to buy tickets at Round Square...
Trying to make reservations at Ghost Square...
Trying to register at Battle Square...
Trying to enter the game area at Wonder Square...
Trying to board the Ropeway...
Cloud and his date chase after Cait Sith. Eventually they wind up at Chocobo Square.
Cait Sith runs past Cloud and down the steps of Chocobo Square, where Tseng arrives in a helicopter.
The helicopter flies off as Cloud and his date catch up to Cait Sith.
If Aeris is Cloud's date...
If Tifa is Cloud's date...
If Yuffie is Cloud's date...
If Barret is Cloud's date...
If Cloud has learned what the Keystone is for...
If Cloud hasn't learned about the Keystone...
Cloud and the others spend the night at Gold Saucer. In the morning, they again gather in the lobby. Cloud is the last to arrive.
Cloud and his chosen party head for the door.
Cloud and the others leave Gold Saucer to search out the Temple of the Ancients.
When they arrive at the Temple, Aeris walks to the center of the bridge and lies down, pressing her ear against it.
Aeris gets up and starts up the stairs, shaking her head.
They go up the stairs, where another clone slouches in front of the entrance.
They enter the Temple to find Tseng slumped at the altar.
Tseng moves out of the way and sits down against another pillar. Cloud walks to Aeris, scratches his head and turns away.
Aeris shakes her head.
If they step back outside to talk to the clone again...
Back inside the Temple...
Cloud walks up to the altar.
He does so, and sinks through the floor into the maze-like Temple interior.
Trying to enter a room along the way...
Ahead is a humanoid being which turns and runs farther into the temple. Cloud and the others follow it to a small room.
They follow a second Spirit Body into a room farther down, and it sets off a trap of odd-shaped boulders. Once they make it past, the trap deactivates.
There is a flash and Aeris gasps.
She runs off and the others follow her to a glowing pool.
The scene changes to another room where Tseng is observing a mural. Cloud and the others stand translucent in the foreground.
Sephiroth appears in the foreground with Cloud and the others. He seems to look at them, then solidifies in the mural room with Tseng.
An afterimage of Sephiroth breaks away from him while he's talking and stands with arms lifted.
The scene returns to the viewing pool. Aeris runs around to rejoin the others.
An afterimage of Sephiroth descends from above into the viewing pool. He stands there for time, then flies off. The pool stops glowing.
Cloud and the others continue on to the chamber of the Time Guardian, a circular, almost bottomless room with hands like a clock face. Around it are the entrances to twelve rooms.
If the second hand knocks them off as they try to cross, Cloud and the others land in a torch-lit chamber below.
Cloud and the others fight a pair of Ancient Dragons, then come out through the sealed entrance and make their way back to the Time Guardian. Passages II, IX, and XI are blocked by rubble. Most of the other passages contain valuable items or monsters. Passage XII is the way out, but it seems to be locked.
Passage VI leads to a room with three levels of doorways, the topmost of which has a more ornate-looking door. Upon seeing Cloud, a Spirit Body locks this door and runs off.
Cloud catches the Spirit Body and unlocks the door. He and the others enter the room of murals. The murals seem to show a progression, with heiroglyphs scrawled above each image.
In the first, people are depicted standing outside the Temple. A diamond shape sits within the Temple's center.
In the second, people may be walking in a procession.
In the third, they are standing around the altar in the Temple. A diamond shape floats above it.
In the fourth, they stand near a low table with two jar-like objects on it.
In the fifth, a woman holds a diamond shape while Meteor falls from the sky.
In the sixth, people stand around looking in different directions.
In the seventh, people are dying in flames.
Sephiroth appears a ways in front of them.
If Cloud tries to leave the room...
Sephiroth reappears in front of the mural depicting the altar.
Sephiroth laughs and flies off again. Cloud finds him again before the mural depicting Meteor.
He laughs, flies off, and Cloud finds him sitting slumped in front of the altar.
He gets to his feet as Cloud and the others reach him. Aeris steps forward with fists raised.
Sephiroth flies off over Cloud's head.
Cloud runs off after him.
She runs after Cloud and finds him standing before the mural depicting Meteor, his body shaking in a double image.
Cloud starts clutching his head.
Barret looks at her oddly, but says nothing. Tifa nods. Nanaki and Vincent look pensive. Yuffie and Cait Sith shrug. Cid scratches his head.
They all look at the mural.
The Temple starts quaking.
Cloud and the others fight off a Red Dragon.
If they try to leave the room...
They approach the altar.
The Temple quakes.
The Temple quakes.
Cloud shrugs.
If Cait Sith is in the party...
Cait Sith steps forward.
If Cait Sith is not in the party...
Cloud's PHS rings, and after a moment of confusion he answers it.
Eventually Cloud has to agree. They make for the exit through the XII passage. Cloud knocks on the door, then turns around and shrugs.
The others back up as a monster comes through the wall.
Cloud turns to look and then runs to join them. They fight the Demons Gate, and afterward, the door opens.
Aeris moves to stand close beside Cloud.
Tifa turns away with a hmph and then turns back.
Aeris runs up to him.
He bounces off.
Cait Sith returns alone to the room with the murals.
Outside the Temple, Cloud and the others watch as it rumbles and shrinks. They run to the deep pit where the Temple used to be, and down at the bottom is a black orb.
Cloud nods and starts down. Aeris follows behind him.
Sephiroth appears hovering above the pit.
Sephiroth joins them at the bottom of the pit.
Cloud falls to his knees, then gets up. Time slows as he runs towards Sephiroth. A child Cloud appears there with them and tries to stop Cloud, to no avail.
He writhes and clutches his head.
The one on watch starts down into the pit just as another Cait Sith arrives.
They knock Cloud out.
The screen goes white.
The scene changes to the Sleeping Forest. Aeris peeks out from behind a tree.
She walks back behind the tree, and then both of them drop down from the canopy. Cloud looks around.
She runs off. Cloud tries to follow, but only runs in place. Aeris disappears into the light.
He drops down from the canopy.
Cloud wakes to find himself in the Gongaga inn.
Cloud wakes in the Gongaga inn. Barret and Tifa are at his bedside.
Cloud sits up.
He leaves the inn, and Tifa follows reluctantly.
Cloud walks outside.
Together, they leave Gongaga to search for Aeris.
Cloud and the others arrive at Bone Village.
The excavators eventually retrieve the Lunar Harp, and Cloud heads into the Forest.
Cloud and the others reach the City of the Ancients, a forebodingly deserted place. Going too far north along the path causes Cloud's companions to stop him.
After exploring the city and finding it empty, Cloud and the others enter the one shell house that's still in tact. Cloud touches one of the glowing orbs.
Upstairs, there are several beds.
They go to sleep, but Cloud wakes in the middle of the night.
They go down the path from the house a ways and Cloud stops.
They go to the shell house near the lake and find a hidden stairway down to the altar where Aeris is praying. Cloud and the others stop on the platform below the stepping-stone pillars.
He starts up on his own, gesturing for the others to stay back. Upon reaching Aeris, he draws his sword and moves to attack her, despite struggling to stop himself.
Their voices stop him and he shakes his head, lowering his sword and stepping back.
Aeris looks up from her prayer with a smile, and Sephiroth leaps down from above to impale her. As he pulls the Masamune back out of her, the White Materia comes loose from her hair and bounces down the steps. Cloud moves to take Aeris in his arms as she falls.
Sephiroth lowers his arms.
Cloud stands and turns to face Sephiroth.
Sephiroth flies off, and Cloud and the others are left to fight JenovaLIFE.
Barret looks at Aeris, shoulders slumped, shakes his head, touches Cloud's shoulder, and walks off.
Tifa kneels to trace Aeris's face with her hand and then runs off crying.
Nanaki looks at Aeris, shakes his head, howls, and pads down the stairs.
Yuffie clasps her hands and bows her head. She walks to Cloud, and he holds her while she cries. Eventually she calms and runs off.
Cait Sith looks at Aeris, then at Cloud. He does a half-hearted dance, then leaves with his head lowered.
Vincent looks at Aeris, then at Cloud, and walks away.
Cid looks at Aeris, sighs, and leaves.
Once everyone has said goodbye, Cloud lifts Aeris and carries her to the lake, where he lets her body sink into the water.
Cloud and the others stand in the shell house where they slept earlier.
Cloud leads the way from the shell house and they walk down the path a ways.
They follow the path northward through Corral Valley Cave and out into the snow fields, after Sephiroth.
After crossing the snow fields, Cloud and the others reach Icicle Inn.
In the Weapons Shop...
Inside the large house...
Cloud takes the map on the wall and leaves the house. Inside Icicle Inn...
Inside the inn's bar...
The woman gets up and sits elsewhere.
In exploring the village, Cloud finds a vacant house that once belonged to Professor Gast. There are several videos that Cloud can watch.
The camera turns on and Gast adjusts the angle to center on Ifalna.
Ifalna lowers her head.
She turns to him and shakes her head.
Ifalna shakes her head.
She buries her face in her hands. Gast turns away and shakes his head.
With this recording, there is only dialogue against a black background.
They start to embrace, but there is a knock on the door.
She runs back down the stairs and hides behind Gast. They both back up as two Shinra soldiers enter, followed by Hojo.
Ifalna buries her face in her hands and Gast shakes his head.
Ifalna moves to kneel at Hojo's feet.
Gast kneels down beside Ifalna.
One of the soldiers turns to shoot out the camera. The video feed fails.
There is a gunshot and a thud.
Having seen everything, Cloud leaves Gast's house and heads for the slopes.
A controls diagram pops up.
When Cloud says he's still going, Elena enters the village, accompanied by Shinra soldiers.
Elena and two soldiers run up to Cloud.
If Cloud dodges Elena's punch...
Elena goes rolling past him on down the hill, and the soldiers chase after her.
If Cloud doesn't dodge...
Elena punches him, knocking him out cold.
Cloud wakes in Gast's house.
Now, Shinra soldiers stand guarding the town's entrance.
Inside the small house...
A controls diagram pops up.
Cloud heads off down the slope.
Cloud and the others snowboard down the slopes, finally flying off an edge and falling down into the Great Glacier.
Flying off a cliff at the end of the snowboarding slopes, Cloud and the others land in Great Glacier.
The others get up.
In the Frostbite Cave...
Choosing "We're outta here," Cloud does some fancy footwork and ends up outside of Great Glacier entirely.
There is a cave within the mountains where they find a woman in blue. If Cloud speaks to her without going to the hot springs...
At the hot springs...
Having gone to the hot springs, Cloud and the others may return to the woman in the mountain cave.
If they defeat the Snow woman...
If they lose to the Snow woman...
Cloud wakes to find himself in Holzoff's house. If he returns to face her again:
Travelling into the northern reaches of the glacier, they end up on seemingly endless snowfields.
If Cloud makes it to Holzoff's house on his own...
If Cloud collapses before reaching the house...
Cloud wakes to find himself in Holzoff's house.
Cloud scratches his head.
They go into the next room and sit down.
Cloud and the others spend the night. If Cloud speaks to Holzoff again:
Everyone gathers outside, facing the cliffs ahead.
Cloud and the others scale Gaea's Cliffs. In a tunnel near the top of the cliffs, they come across one of the clones.
It collapses and disappears. Cloud runs through the tunnel and encounters into a two-headed dragon. After defeating it, Cloud and the others continue through the tunnel and reach the top of Gaea's Cliffs. They look over the edge at the crater, and then start down the slope. Cloud pauses a short way down.
They continue down the slope.
Further down, they come to the edge of Whirlwind Maze.
If Tifa is in the party...
Cloud nods.
If Tifa is not in the party...
Cloud folds his arms in thought, and Tifa turns away.
One of the others stays behind:
They move on through the maze. Reaching the first wind wall, Cloud looks up.
Above them flies the Highwind, with a full compliment of Shinra executives assembled on the bridge.
Back to Cloud and the first wind wall. Two clones attempt to cross it, and are knocked back.
Beyond the first wind wall, roughly a dozen Sephiroth clones make their way in a line towards the second wind wall, many collapsing before they reach it. Beyond the second wall, Cloud comes upon Sephiroth cutting down the clones.
Sephiroth leaps down from above and knocks them all to the ground. Cloud slowly gets to his feet, and they enter a battle with JenovaDEATH. Afterwards, the Black Materia is left lying on the ground.
Cloud gives the Black Materia to Barret.
Cloud gives the Black Materia to Nanaki.
Cloud moves on past the final wind wall and suddenly everything goes white.
The surroundings change to Nibelheim. Cloud and the others stand at its gates.
They turn around and run aside as Sephiroth walks up to the gates. He turns to someone behind him.
Two soldiers and a man with spiky black hair follow Sephiroth into Nibelheim.
Tifa shakes her head, and the others turn to look at her.
A flash, and Sephiroth and the others vanish.
Another flash of white.
A burning Nibelheim fades into view.
The black-haired SOLDIER runs out of the mansion.
The SOLDIER shakes his head and walks closer to the burning buildings.
The SOLDIER nods.
The SOLDIER runs over to help Zangan.
The screen goes white and Cloud and the others find themselves in the midst of the burning town square. Nearby, the man with the camera lies motionless.
A flash, and Sephiroth appears before them.
Tifa turns away from both him and Cloud.
A flash and Sephiroth appears beyond the fire.
Sephiroth reappears closer to them.
Cloud walks over to look at the photo. The black-haired SOLDIER is standing where Cloud should have been. Once he looks, Sephiroth is gone.
Flash.
The screen fades to black.
Meanwhile, the Shinra have arrived at the center of the crater.
The ground starts quaking.
A huge eye in the wall opens and closes.
Hojo taps his head.
Back with who Cloud left guarding the Black Materia...
Suddenly the others disappear and the background becomes a roiling green.
Tifa comes running up.
The background returns, but still no one else is there.
Barret or Nanaki nods to Tifa and runs off in the indicated direction.
Tifa's image morphs into Sephiroth.
He disappears, and the others are visible again, lying unconscious.
Back to the Shinra...
A flash, and Cloud his party appear among them.
Cloud clutches his head and slowly walks towards Barret or Nanaki.
Cloud nods.
Sephiroth's face is visible for a fraction of a second, and the screen goes white momentarily.
Tifa shakes her head and falls to her knees.
Cloud flies up into a tangle of branches above them.
Below, the third party member runs over to Tifa and helps her up.
Cloud stands.
At the center of the tangle of branches, Sephiroth's body is encased in a huge crystal, his eyes closed.
Cloud gives the Black Materia to Sephiroth. Below, the others run for the Highwind, leaving him behind, and the airship pulls away from the Northern Crater as the Planet's Weapons explode from hiding.
The screen is pitch black. Cloud sits in the distance.
Cloud gets up and starts walking away. Tifa runs after him, but he disappears into the black, and she falls to her knees.
Flashback to the Sector 7 train station, before the events of the game. Cloud is lying near the steps holding the Buster Sword, with the station man and a dog on either side of him.
Tifa runs over, and the station man walks off.
Tifa kneels down in front of him, and there's a flash of white.
He gets to his feet, and Tifa stands with him.
She turns away and he clutches his head for a moment. She turns back.
Flash.
The screen fades to white, and we hear the cries of the Planet. Eventually, Tifa wakes in Junon base to bright lights overhead.
The glare fades and Tifa sits up.
Barret nods.
Barret presses a button to open the blinds to a large window, revealing Meteor hanging in the sky.
The door opens and Rufus enters.
Heidegger enters.
Shinra soldiers escort Barret and Tifa down to the press room, where Scarlet waits with about half a dozen members of the press.
A soldier brings Tifa into the gas chamber, and Scarlet pushes her towards the chair.
She shoves Tifa into the chair, and the soldier locks her into it.
Scarlet and the soldier walk out, the soldier dropping a key on the way.
They all flee the press room except for the large man.
The large man reveals himself to be Cait Sith in disguise.
Cait Sith and Barret dispatch the soldiers.
Barret tugs at the door to the gas chamber.
Meanwhile, in the command center, Rufus and Heidegger stand before a broad window overlooking the ocean.
Three men standing behind Heidegger salute and run off. The cannon moves into position.
SailorPreparations complete!
HeideggerThe cannon...Fire----!!!
The cannon fires a shot across the water. A moment of silence descends.
RufusDid we get 'em?
HeideggerSeems so...
Weapon approaching!Speed, 50 Knots!It's heading right toward us!
HeideggerIt can't be! We hit it dead on!
RufusHow about the cannon?
HeideggerIt'll take time to reload.
RufusThen use regular fire power in the mean time!
HeideggerYes sir! Open all artillery doors! Target: Weapon! Don't let it land!
Weapon approaches from the ocean amid a hail of fire from Junon's smaller cannons.
Speed, 70 Knots!Weapon, closing in!!Not good! It's attacking!

Back at the gas chamber, the gas turns on and Tifa starts squirming.
TifaGas!!Barret, help!!
BarretHold your breath! Hold on as long as you can!
TifaCome on! I can't hold on forever!
BarretShi-!
Barret gives up getting the door open and runs back to Cait Sith.
BarretThe Gas Room's probably locked from a different room!
Cait SithHmm, we gotta go with a different plan. Let's get out of this room first.
BarretTifa! I'll help you, I promise!
They leave the press room, and the door locks behind them.
BarretNo! They locked this too!
Scarlet (from inside)Fools. Now, you can't save the girl.Ha, ha, ha, ha!!
BarretGoddammit......!!
Cait SithOK, OK time for Plan B. Let's run to the airport!
BarretWhy the airport? An' leave Tifa there?
Cait SithTrust me, trust me. We gotta take a chance.
If Barret goes the wrong way...
Cait SithWhere you goin'? The airport's the other way.
They run outside and come across Yuffie disguised as a reporter.
YuffieI know you're in a hurry! But, please if I could have a word......
BarretShu'up!! I'm in a hurry!
Kiiiiin...
YuffieDon't make so much noise...... It's me, ME! Yuffie!
BarretThe hell you doin' here!?
YuffieI'll explain later! Now we gotta get to the airport!
If Yuffie has not been recruited, a lone cameraman films the attack as soldiers run past. Barret stops to look as Weapon emerges from the ocean.
BarretDamn, man!
They arrive at the airport.
BarretYo! You sure this is the right way? It's a dead end!
Cait SithUh oh? Did I make a wrong turn?
BarretYou damn cat......! What the hell're we gonna do now? They all be comin' soon!Yo, better watch my back till the end... partner!

Back in the gas chamber, Tifa manages to grab the dropped key with her feet and free herself from the chair.
TifaWhich button stops the gas...?
She turns off the gas and then tries to tug open the door.
Open it---......
Outside, Weapon fires an energy blast at Junon base. The cannon returns fire, and Weapon sinks into the ocean. The exchange leaves a hole in the ceiling above the gas chamber.
ScarletWhat d'you do? Hey! Open it!
TifaFirst you lock me in this weird place, and now you're telling me to come out? Make up your mind!
She climbs out the opening, down the outside of the base, and runs out across the cannon. Scarlet follows and they face off near the end of the cannon.
ScarletOur little game of hide and seek ends here.The execution may have been unsuccessful, but your death by falling from here and crashing into the water below still might be pretty exciting.
She slaps Tifa.
Stuck up to the end!
TifaQuit slapping me! You old wench!!!
A slapping fight ensues.
Tifa (as she slaps Scarlet)What!?Pay back!!Stop it!Same to you!!
Scarlet (as she slaps Tifa)How can you!?You!!That hurts!That's enough!
At the end of the fight, one of them falls down.
Scarlet (if she loses)God! I can't stand it!
ScarletTake her away.Now it's time to pay up. I'll really drop you if you don't settle down!Ha, ha, ha, ha!
Run...Run to the end of the Cannon!!
Tifa runs to the end of the cannon as the airship, the Highwind, comes up from below and hovers nearby. Barret is out on deck, and he throws Tifa a rope. She jumps from the cannon and catches the rope as the Highwind flies away from Junon.
BarretYou okay?
TifaMy cheeks hurt a bid.Forget about that, what's all this about?
Cait SithWell, I'll catch the details later.In any case, the Airship, Highwind, is now yours.
Yuffie (lying on deck)Ha! Ha! ......urk!Well...... I'm glad you're safe.I'm going to stay up here a little longer.......Urk! ......I can't ride ships either in the air or water.
Tifa goes inside.
Crew Member in Operation RoomSorry!! Go speak to Captain Cid!
Crew Member outside Operation RoomMy hands are full, so I'll excuse myself here!
Tifa- Fly Airship- Chew the fat

Fly Airship
Crew Member outside Operation RoomSo things have come to this... When you want to take off, just tell the pilot on the bridge.


Chew the fat
Crew Member outside Operation Room......Well......... Um, what should I talk about?Wanna hear why we rebelled?
Tifa- Listen- Don't care
Crew Member outside Operation RoomWorking on the Highwind, we spent every day slaving under Heidegger.Whenever he got yelled at by the President, he'd immediately take it out on the crew.We put up with this all the time. Even when he beat us.I mean, I finally made it on the crew of the famous Highwind, and there's no way I was going to quit over him.Let's see, it must've been a week ago... it was my shift and we were heading towards the North Cave.Everyone, including the President and Scarlet, got on.And with them, I saw Cid, a legendary pilot!And he was looking around the inside of the ship looking really, y'know, nostalgic......He even talked to us.I couldn't believe it! I was so impressed! He was every bit as warmhearted as we'd always heard.Cid said that if he had the Highwind, things would be a lot easier.And now here we are off to save the planet. It's true. He really overwhelmed me.And that's why we decided to help.After the North Cave, we went to Junon, and I started screaming 'Fire! Fire!'In the middle of all the commotion, we stole this ship from the Shinra.That's how it happened. .......Just a minor mutiny against our leaders.But Barret and you were captured by Heidegger......We waited seven days for a chance to rescue you guys, before we finally could.So thanks to our successful mission, we were able to see you again.I hope I didn't bore you too much with that long story.

Crew Member in Chocobo StableI'm bored...... I'd like to ride a Chocobo.
Tifa- How do I?- Later

How do I?
Crew Member in Chocobo StableListen...... you gotta ride in on a Chocobo you've raised yourselfThen, if you bring your Chocobo to this stable, I'll take care of it for you.I'll take care of it for you.what? How do you raise a Chocobo? Can't say I know much about that.If you want to know about raising Chocobo, there's a Chocobo ranch near Midgar. You should ask them.


Later
Crew Member in Chocobo StableWhew......

BarretDammit! Why didn't ya tell me you could fly an airship!?I thought...... Tifa was gone for good.
Cait SithSorry, but I had to do something to trick the enemy.Come on! Everyone is waiting!
TifaEveryone? Everyone's here?
Tifa runs to the bridge.
CidWelcome to my airship--the Highwind!
Tifa looks around.
CidWhat's wrong!? You should be more excited than that!
NanakiCid......
CidYeah......
TifaNot enough crew.
Pilot in Training (LV3)Yaaaaahh! Don't talk to me right now!
Bridge Crew Member 1Whenever anyone talks to me, I get all nervous and mess things up!
Bridge Crew Member 2All we have to do is just pilot. They don't have to talk to us.
Cid (after Tifa speaks to either of the crew)Hey you! What the hell are you doin'!?
BarretWhat's that sad face for?
Cait SithTifa, I'll give you information Shinra.Ask me if there's anything you don't understand.
CidWell, it takes all kinds.
NanakiDo you think we aren't strong enough without Cloud?Do you think we can't save the Planet alone?
TifaMeteor is coming, and Weapon is on the rampage......At a time like this, I don't know what I'm supposed to do......No idea at all......
BarretGet a hold of yourself Tifa! C'mon, let's think about this!No way we can get offa this train we're on!
Tifa......If only Cloud was here, everything would be fine.Cloud would......Stand that cocky little way he did, and tell us what to do.He'd say, 'Everything's under control, Tifa.'
BarretTifa! When'd you become such a wimp!
TifaI'm sorry Barret.I'm kind of shocked myself. I'm so depressed.
NanakiAnd Tifa...... the reason why we all thought it was Cloud was because......
Tifa......I know.That's why I want to make sure. That's why I have to see him again.
NanakiCheer up, Tifa......
Vincent......So glad you're all right Tifa.
BarretWhat? Does Cloud always gotta be around?.......We did fine without him in the beginning......Right? An' what happened to tough girl I used to know? Where'd she go to?
CidI want you to know that I didn't dislike him.Gotta admit he was a strange dude.Just when you thought he was cool, he'd go and do some damn fool thing.And when you thought he was smart, he'd show how stupid he was.Everything about him from his movements to his speech were kinda odd.Knowin' what I do now, I can see why he was that way.Well, as long as you stay alive, you just might see him again someday, so cheer up, sis.
Tifa......I'll be able to see him someday.
CidIf we can find out where he is, the Highwind'll get us there in no time.
Nanaki......MaybeCloud is still stuck deep in the North Crater, where the ground cracked and swallowed him up......Buried in the depths of the underground......
TifaDeep within the earth...... are you talking about the Lifestream?
NanakiThe Lifestream sometimes gushes out to the surface from cracks in the ocean floor.I heard that such a place exists.Maybe, just maybe Cloud's......
Pilot in Training (LV3)Waaaaah! Captain Cid!
CidTifa, sorry, but I've gotta show this moron how to land the ship.Don't worry, it'll be done in a minute.Oh, and Tifa......No matter what your goal is, you've got to be prepared.Go to your room and get ready for our operation.I put a lot of things for the operation in your room, so put them in order.
Tifa goes to the Operations Room.
Crew Member in Operation RoomTifa, thank you for a job well done!
Back on the bridge...
BarretWhenever I think of Cloud, everything gets all jumbled up.No matter how powerful Shinra or Hojo is, I can't believe they can create humans.But because of them, we know that Meteor is heading towards us......Y'know, even if I saw him, I don't have a damn idea what I'd do......
NanakiThere appears to be a small island near the Lifestream......They said the Lifestream sometimes suddenly gushes out at the south island.I remember hearing about this from Seto when I was a child, but I don't remember much else......I'm sorry...... Tifa.
Cait SithEverything appears calm right now at Shinra.So now's the time to look for Cloud.I'm worried about him, too.I wonder where Cloud is. Or could he already be......
VincentToo much hope is the opposite of despair.An overpowering love may consume you in the end......
CidOK! You just signal when you're ready to fly full speed.
Pilot in Training (LV4)Eagggghh! Are we going?
Tifa- We're going- We're staying put
Pilot in Training (LV4)Eagggggh! We're off!

< Northern Crater | Junon | The World >

The cannon fires a shot across the water. A moment of silence descends.
Weapon approaches from the ocean amid a hail of fire from Junon's smaller cannons.
Speed, 70 Knots!Weapon, closing in!!Not good! It's attacking!

Back at the gas chamber, the gas turns on and Tifa starts squirming.
TifaGas!!Barret, help!!
BarretHold your breath! Hold on as long as you can!
TifaCome on! I can't hold on forever!
BarretShi-!
Barret gives up getting the door open and runs back to Cait Sith.
BarretThe Gas Room's probably locked from a different room!
Cait SithHmm, we gotta go with a different plan. Let's get out of this room first.
BarretTifa! I'll help you, I promise!
They leave the press room, and the door locks behind them.
BarretNo! They locked this too!
Scarlet (from inside)Fools. Now, you can't save the girl.Ha, ha, ha, ha!!
BarretGoddammit......!!
Cait SithOK, OK time for Plan B. Let's run to the airport!
BarretWhy the airport? An' leave Tifa there?
Cait SithTrust me, trust me. We gotta take a chance.
If Barret goes the wrong way...
Cait SithWhere you goin'? The airport's the other way.
They run outside and come across Yuffie disguised as a reporter.
YuffieI know you're in a hurry! But, please if I could have a word......
BarretShu'up!! I'm in a hurry!
Kiiiiin...
YuffieDon't make so much noise...... It's me, ME! Yuffie!
BarretThe hell you doin' here!?
YuffieI'll explain later! Now we gotta get to the airport!
If Yuffie has not been recruited, a lone cameraman films the attack as soldiers run past. Barret stops to look as Weapon emerges from the ocean.
BarretDamn, man!
They arrive at the airport.
BarretYo! You sure this is the right way? It's a dead end!
Cait SithUh oh? Did I make a wrong turn?
BarretYou damn cat......! What the hell're we gonna do now? They all be comin' soon!Yo, better watch my back till the end... partner!

Back in the gas chamber, Tifa manages to grab the dropped key with her feet and free herself from the chair.
TifaWhich button stops the gas...?
She turns off the gas and then tries to tug open the door.
Open it---......
Outside, Weapon fires an energy blast at Junon base. The cannon returns fire, and Weapon sinks into the ocean. The exchange leaves a hole in the ceiling above the gas chamber.
ScarletWhat d'you do? Hey! Open it!
TifaFirst you lock me in this weird place, and now you're telling me to come out? Make up your mind!
She climbs out the opening, down the outside of the base, and runs out across the cannon. Scarlet follows and they face off near the end of the cannon.
ScarletOur little game of hide and seek ends here.The execution may have been unsuccessful, but your death by falling from here and crashing into the water below still might be pretty exciting.
She slaps Tifa.
Stuck up to the end!
TifaQuit slapping me! You old wench!!!
A slapping fight ensues.
Tifa (as she slaps Scarlet)What!?Pay back!!Stop it!Same to you!!
Scarlet (as she slaps Tifa)How can you!?You!!That hurts!That's enough!
At the end of the fight, one of them falls down.
Scarlet (if she loses)God! I can't stand it!
ScarletTake her away.Now it's time to pay up. I'll really drop you if you don't settle down!Ha, ha, ha, ha!
Run...Run to the end of the Cannon!!
Tifa runs to the end of the cannon as the airship, the Highwind, comes up from below and hovers nearby. Barret is out on deck, and he throws Tifa a rope. She jumps from the cannon and catches the rope as the Highwind flies away from Junon.
BarretYou okay?
TifaMy cheeks hurt a bid.Forget about that, what's all this about?
Cait SithWell, I'll catch the details later.In any case, the Airship, Highwind, is now yours.
Yuffie (lying on deck)Ha! Ha! ......urk!Well...... I'm glad you're safe.I'm going to stay up here a little longer.......Urk! ......I can't ride ships either in the air or water.
Tifa goes inside.
Crew Member in Operation RoomSorry!! Go speak to Captain Cid!
Crew Member outside Operation RoomMy hands are full, so I'll excuse myself here!
Tifa- Fly Airship- Chew the fat

Fly Airship
Crew Member outside Operation RoomSo things have come to this... When you want to take off, just tell the pilot on the bridge.


Chew the fat
Crew Member outside Operation Room......Well......... Um, what should I talk about?Wanna hear why we rebelled?
Tifa- Listen- Don't care
Crew Member outside Operation RoomWorking on the Highwind, we spent every day slaving under Heidegger.Whenever he got yelled at by the President, he'd immediately take it out on the crew.We put up with this all the time. Even when he beat us.I mean, I finally made it on the crew of the famous Highwind, and there's no way I was going to quit over him.Let's see, it must've been a week ago... it was my shift and we were heading towards the North Cave.Everyone, including the President and Scarlet, got on.And with them, I saw Cid, a legendary pilot!And he was looking around the inside of the ship looking really, y'know, nostalgic......He even talked to us.I couldn't believe it! I was so impressed! He was every bit as warmhearted as we'd always heard.Cid said that if he had the Highwind, things would be a lot easier.And now here we are off to save the planet. It's true. He really overwhelmed me.And that's why we decided to help.After the North Cave, we went to Junon, and I started screaming 'Fire! Fire!'In the middle of all the commotion, we stole this ship from the Shinra.That's how it happened. .......Just a minor mutiny against our leaders.But Barret and you were captured by Heidegger......We waited seven days for a chance to rescue you guys, before we finally could.So thanks to our successful mission, we were able to see you again.I hope I didn't bore you too much with that long story.

Crew Member in Chocobo StableI'm bored...... I'd like to ride a Chocobo.
Tifa- How do I?- Later

How do I?
Crew Member in Chocobo StableListen...... you gotta ride in on a Chocobo you've raised yourselfThen, if you bring your Chocobo to this stable, I'll take care of it for you.I'll take care of it for you.what? How do you raise a Chocobo? Can't say I know much about that.If you want to know about raising Chocobo, there's a Chocobo ranch near Midgar. You should ask them.


Later
Crew Member in Chocobo StableWhew......

BarretDammit! Why didn't ya tell me you could fly an airship!?I thought...... Tifa was gone for good.
Cait SithSorry, but I had to do something to trick the enemy.Come on! Everyone is waiting!
TifaEveryone? Everyone's here?
Tifa runs to the bridge.
CidWelcome to my airship--the Highwind!
Tifa looks around.
CidWhat's wrong!? You should be more excited than that!
NanakiCid......
CidYeah......
TifaNot enough crew.
Pilot in Training (LV3)Yaaaaahh! Don't talk to me right now!
Bridge Crew Member 1Whenever anyone talks to me, I get all nervous and mess things up!
Bridge Crew Member 2All we have to do is just pilot. They don't have to talk to us.
Cid (after Tifa speaks to either of the crew)Hey you! What the hell are you doin'!?
BarretWhat's that sad face for?
Cait SithTifa, I'll give you information Shinra.Ask me if there's anything you don't understand.
CidWell, it takes all kinds.
NanakiDo you think we aren't strong enough without Cloud?Do you think we can't save the Planet alone?
TifaMeteor is coming, and Weapon is on the rampage......At a time like this, I don't know what I'm supposed to do......No idea at all......
BarretGet a hold of yourself Tifa! C'mon, let's think about this!No way we can get offa this train we're on!
Tifa......If only Cloud was here, everything would be fine.Cloud would......Stand that cocky little way he did, and tell us what to do.He'd say, 'Everything's under control, Tifa.'
BarretTifa! When'd you become such a wimp!
TifaI'm sorry Barret.I'm kind of shocked myself. I'm so depressed.
NanakiAnd Tifa...... the reason why we all thought it was Cloud was because......
Tifa......I know.That's why I want to make sure. That's why I have to see him again.
NanakiCheer up, Tifa......
Vincent......So glad you're all right Tifa.
BarretWhat? Does Cloud always gotta be around?.......We did fine without him in the beginning......Right? An' what happened to tough girl I used to know? Where'd she go to?
CidI want you to know that I didn't dislike him.Gotta admit he was a strange dude.Just when you thought he was cool, he'd go and do some damn fool thing.And when you thought he was smart, he'd show how stupid he was.Everything about him from his movements to his speech were kinda odd.Knowin' what I do now, I can see why he was that way.Well, as long as you stay alive, you just might see him again someday, so cheer up, sis.
Tifa......I'll be able to see him someday.
CidIf we can find out where he is, the Highwind'll get us there in no time.
Nanaki......MaybeCloud is still stuck deep in the North Crater, where the ground cracked and swallowed him up......Buried in the depths of the underground......
TifaDeep within the earth...... are you talking about the Lifestream?
NanakiThe Lifestream sometimes gushes out to the surface from cracks in the ocean floor.I heard that such a place exists.Maybe, just maybe Cloud's......
Pilot in Training (LV3)Waaaaah! Captain Cid!
CidTifa, sorry, but I've gotta show this moron how to land the ship.Don't worry, it'll be done in a minute.Oh, and Tifa......No matter what your goal is, you've got to be prepared.Go to your room and get ready for our operation.I put a lot of things for the operation in your room, so put them in order.
Tifa goes to the Operations Room.
Crew Member in Operation RoomTifa, thank you for a job well done!
Back on the bridge...
BarretWhenever I think of Cloud, everything gets all jumbled up.No matter how powerful Shinra or Hojo is, I can't believe they can create humans.But because of them, we know that Meteor is heading towards us......Y'know, even if I saw him, I don't have a damn idea what I'd do......
NanakiThere appears to be a small island near the Lifestream......They said the Lifestream sometimes suddenly gushes out at the south island.I remember hearing about this from Seto when I was a child, but I don't remember much else......I'm sorry...... Tifa.
Cait SithEverything appears calm right now at Shinra.So now's the time to look for Cloud.I'm worried about him, too.I wonder where Cloud is. Or could he already be......
VincentToo much hope is the opposite of despair.An overpowering love may consume you in the end......
CidOK! You just signal when you're ready to fly full speed.
Pilot in Training (LV4)Eagggghh! Are we going?
Tifa- We're going- We're staying put
Pilot in Training (LV4)Eagggggh! We're off!

< Northern Crater | Junon | The World >

Back at the gas chamber, the gas turns on and Tifa starts squirming.
Barret gives up getting the door open and runs back to Cait Sith.
They leave the press room, and the door locks behind them.
If Barret goes the wrong way...
They run outside and come across Yuffie disguised as a reporter.
If Yuffie has not been recruited, a lone cameraman films the attack as soldiers run past. Barret stops to look as Weapon emerges from the ocean.
They arrive at the airport.
Back in the gas chamber, Tifa manages to grab the dropped key with her feet and free herself from the chair.
Outside, Weapon fires an energy blast at Junon base. The cannon returns fire, and Weapon sinks into the ocean. The exchange leaves a hole in the ceiling above the gas chamber.
She climbs out the opening, down the outside of the base, and runs out across the cannon. Scarlet follows and they face off near the end of the cannon.
A slapping fight ensues.
At the end of the fight, one of them falls down.
Tifa runs to the end of the cannon as the airship, the Highwind, comes up from below and hovers nearby. Barret is out on deck, and he throws Tifa a rope. She jumps from the cannon and catches the rope as the Highwind flies away from Junon.
Tifa goes inside.
Tifa runs to the bridge.
Tifa looks around.
Tifa goes to the Operations Room.
Back on the bridge...
At Kalm...
Inside the first house...
Inside the third house...
Upstairs, a boy is running around while a little girl watches him.
Back outside...
Inside the fourth house...
Inside the bar...
At the Chocobo Farm...
Nothing happens.
In the stable...
If you haven't rented any stables yet...
If you don't have any chocobos in the fenced area...
If all of your stables are full...
Otherwise...
Once you select a chocobo...
If you haven't rented any stables yet...
If you don't have any chocobos stabled...
If you don't have any greens...
Otherwise...
After feeding the chocobo, a notification will pop up with the effects:
If you haven't rented any stables yet...
If you don't have any chocobos stabled...
If you don't have an empty chocobo stable...
If you don't have any nuts...
If you only have one chocobo...
If your chocobos are all male or all female, or if you try to select a same-sex pair...
If no chocobos are ready to mate...
Otherwise...
On giving the chosen pair a nut, some magic happens off-screen and then a brand new chocobo appears.
If you haven't rented any stables yet...
If you don't have any chocobos stabled...
Otherwise...
If you haven't rented any stables yet...
If you don't have any chocobos stabled...
Otherwise...
If you return to the Chocobo Farm after visiting the Chocobo Sage...
Tifa tells her.
On any subsequent visit after seeing the Chocobo Sage...
Tifa tells her.
Nothing happens.
At Lower Junon...
Tifa goes to Priscilla's house.
In Upper Junon...
In the bar downstairs...
Inside the barracks...
Shinra Member's Bar...
2nd floor materia shop...
3rd floor accessory shop. The shopkeeper is dressed in a black cloak.
In another barracks...
Upstairs...
The docks are empty.
At Costa del Sol...
At the harbor...
Back to the town...
In the bar...
Back outside...
At Johnny's house...
At the beach...
At North Corel...
Inside a tent...
At the ropeway...
At Gold Saucer...
At Gongaga...
At Cosmo Canyon...
In living quarters next door...
Up at the observatory...
At Nibelheim...
In Cloud's house...
In Tifa's room, at the piano...
At Rocket Town...
In the Inn...
Back outside...
At Cid's house...
At Wutai...
At the old man's house...
At the Weapons Shop...
At Turtle's Paradise...
At the Item Shop...
In the shrine...
At Bone Village...
At the City of the Ancients...
When Tifa touches one of the glowing orbs...
When Cid touches one of the glowing orbs...
At Icicle Inn...
Inside the small house...
Inside the large house...
At Icicle Inn...
Back outside...
The Chocobo Sage's house becomes accessible after gaining the Highwind, but can be visited while Tifa, Cid, or Cloud is the party leader.
On a second visit...
On a third visit...
On a fourth visit...
On a fifth visit...
On a sixth visit...
On a seventh visit...
On an eighth visit...
On a ninth visit...
On a tenth visit...
And finally...
If you return to the Northern Crater and ram the barrier with the Highwind...
Tifa leads the way into Mideel.
In the Item Shop, a woman is running around frantically, followed by a baby white chocobo.
If Tifa is carrying Mimett Greens, she can talk to the chocobo.
If the party hasn't obtained the chocobo's materia...
If the party already obtained the chocobo's materia...
On the upper platform at the far left...
As she walks past him, there is a clinking noise.
In the Weapons Shop...
In the back of the store is a door. Tifa knocks on it.
She returns to the key.
Inside the nearby house...
Back to the Weapons Shop, Tifa again inspects the door...
Tifa nods.
In the Materia shop...
Outside, Tifa comes across a lone dog.
Tifa runs into the clinic.
The nurse steps aside and lowers her head. The doctor comes to the doorway as the others run into the clinic.
Tifa drops to her knees before Cloud.
Everyone files outside, leaving Tifa alone with Cloud.
Meanwhile, outside...
Tifa steps outside.
She turns back inside and the others follow.
The others leave Tifa with Cloud and return to the Highwind.
In the Conference Room at Shinra HQ...
Back on the Highwind...
Around the world there is now some awareness of the Huge Materia plans. At Kalm...
At Lower Junon, on entering Priscilla's house...
In Upper Junon...
On the path to the Underwater Reactor, where the soldiers are drilling...
At Gongaga...
At Cosmo Canyon...
At Corel...
Cid and the others travel through the mountains to the Corel Reactor.
They fight and defeat the two soldiers guarding the door.
A train whistle sounds.
They get out of the way as a train exits the reactor.
They run inside the reactor and another whistle sounds.
They come out riding a shorter train.
If they fail to catch up to Shinra's train...
They walk into North Corel, which is unharmed.
If they catch up to Shinra's train in time...
They jump to the other train and fight their way to the front.
They fight off the soldier.
If Cid slows the train down in time...
The train stops just at the entrance to North Corel.
A kid comes down from above.
Cid and the others spend the night.
The next day, inside the crumbling house...
Back outside...
Inside a tent...
In another tent...
If Cid fails to slow the train down in time...
The train crashes into North Corel. Cid comes to in the inn, rolling off the bed.
Cid and the others step outside to see the damage.
Inside the crumbling house...
If you went to Fort Condor before going to Corel, the party stops to talk before leaving.
Back on the Highwind...
Because Fort Condor is optional until this point, it is possible for this to be the party's first visit.
If this is the party's first visit to Fort Condor...
Cid and the others go inside. They find the man by himself in the shed at the top of the fort, looking out the window.
Cid has a look out the window, seeing a huge condor nesting close to the Mako reactor that sits atop Fort Condor's hill.
They go on up to the shack.
If the party has visited Fort Condor before...
They go on up to the shack.
Once the party agrees to fight...
A lengthy battle with Shinra troops ensues.
If Cid and the others defeat the Shinra...
Outside, the condor's egg begins to crack, there is a blaze of light, and the condor falls from atop the reactor. The egg hatches.
ManTh, that light just now......The condor......The eggs......What!?Would you go outside and see what it was?
Cid goes outside to investigate. He picks up the Phoenix materia and watches the hatchling condor fly off. Cid goes back inside.
ManGone...Be sure and report to my father, too.Oh, it's you. Thanks a lot.
Cid goes down to report to the father.
Man with HatEveryone, thanks. I really mean it. Thanks.Although there isn't anything we can give you, we'll make sure you can stop in and stay any time, so be sure to drop by.Yes, yes, and there's one thing I forgot to tell you......
Received key item "Huge Materia"!
CidHuh? What's this?

BarretDamn man, it's Huge Materia.
YuffieGotta have that materia!
Cait SithHmm, you mean this?
VincentThis is......

Man with HatThe truth is, this is the materia inside the reactor.
CidWhat the hell did we fight for?
Man with HatWe weren't protectin' the reactor, we were protectin' the condors.When that reactor was built, they forced us to help. That's how we knew what was inside the reactor.I knew this day would come, so after the Shinra left, I sneaked in and took the materia.I didn't mean to fool you, but I guess that's how it ended up. I'm really sorry.
CidJust forget about it. Anyway, we're still alive.
Man with HatI see. If you put it that way...... we're really grateful.
CidSo the last Huge Materia that Shinra's after's in the underwater reactor in Junon?

BarretWe gotta get there first and beat 'em no matter what!
NanakiWe must get there before them and stop them!
YuffieWe gotta get there and stop 'em...
VincentGetting to the reactor before them...

CidBut ya know, Shinra's probably on high alert since we always mess with 'em.How 'bout we take a break and go see that little fella for a bit?

BarretYou mus' mean Cloud......
NanakiYou mean, Cloud...?
YuffieCloud, right...?
Cait SithYou must mean Mr. Cloud......

CidYeah, I'm worried 'bout Tifa; she may've collapsed takin' care of the guy.How 'bout checkin' in on 'em! Down to Mideel!

Cid goes outside to investigate. He picks up the Phoenix materia and watches the hatchling condor fly off. Cid goes back inside.
Cid goes down to report to the father.
If the party loses the battle...
Cid comes back inside the shack and falls over.
The party comes to at the bottom of Fort Condor and slowly gets up.
The others nod.
On returning to the Highwind, if you haven't gone to North Corel yet...
Otherwise:
On returning to the Highwind's bridge afterwards...
If you obtained and used the Beat-up Useless Old Key as Tifa...
In the Weapons Shop, Cid inspects the door.
If you did not obtain the Beat-up Useless Old Key...
Walking over the key, there is a clinking noise.
In the Weapons Shop, Cid kicks the door.
He returns to the key.
Back to the Weapons Shop, Cid again inspects the door...
Cid nods.
If Cid is carrying Mimett Greens, he can talk to the white chocobo following the shopper.
If the party hasn't obtained the chocobo's materia...
If the party already obtained the chocobo's materia...
Inside a house...
Cid takes the elixir on his bed and starts for the door.
The dog barks, and Cid jumps.
Back outside...
At the clinic...
The ground starts shaking and Tifa falls down.
Cid goes outside.
The sound of a monster screeching starts up.
Cid and the others get ready to fight.
Ultima Weapon flies down to meet them. After a short battle, it flies off again.
The quaking abates, and they all relax.
The quaking starts up again.
They run off. Cid turns back momentarily.
Back to Tifa in the clinic...
She pushes Cloud out of the clinic on the wheelchair as the ground lifts up and falls into the Lifestream behind them, taking the town with it. Unable to make it to safety in time, she and Cloud both fall into the Lifestream.
Tifa wakes, sitting alone in the middle of a black screen, with the sound of dripping water.
Faint noises start up in the background, like static on a radio.
The sounds grow louder and she falls to her knees.
Tifa comes to in a sort of nexus with three branching paths. An image of Cloud sits at the entrance to each of them.
She looks up to where there is another Cloud overhead, clutching his head and writhing in pain.
* Note: It should be noted that the dialogue boxes belonging to Cloud's mind fragments are not labeled with his name during this section.
Tifa walks up to the Cloud near the gates to Nibelheim.
Tifa walks up to the gate into Nibelheim.
Cloud appears sitting near the truck.
Sephiroth appears and turns to talk to someone behind him.
She watches as Cloud and the two soldiers enter the village. The Cloud-image moves to stand with the Cloud in the memory. Tifa shakes her head.
Sephiroth and the soldiers disappear.
A flash. A 15-year-old Tifa sits waiting just past the gate.
The young Tifa gets up to see who's coming. She shakes her head and runs off. Sephiroth reappears at the gate.
The two soldiers enter, along with a black-haired SOLDIER. Fade to white.
The Cloud-image sits down. Tifa walks to the second Cloud, who sits in front of the well.
Fade to black.
A starlit Nibelheim fades into view. Cloud and Tifa stand on the well.
A young Cloud and Tifa appear sitting at the well.
Fade to white. They return to the nexus.
Tifa turns to look as a much younger Cloud appears.
Tifa walks over to join him.
Tifa goes over to talk to the third and final Cloud.
He steps aside to let Tifa and the young Cloud pass.
They look through the window into Tifa's bedroom. Tifa and the young Cloud now stand in the bedroom, while an adult Cloud sits in the corner by her dresser.
A flash, and a young Tifa is sitting on the floor near her window with a trio of boys around her.
Out the window, they see Cloud approach the house.
Young Tifa looks up and shakes her head.
Another image of Cloud separates from the adult Cloud sitting in the corner, and stands up.
Fade to white.
Back to the young Tifa on the floor.
She gets to her feet and runs from her room. She and the three boys gather at the base of Mt. Nibel.
The three boys watch her. Two start after her, but the third hesitates and runs away. Cloud runs up in time to watch him go, then starts after Tifa. When the kids reach the bridge, the other two boys run back. Cloud steps aside to let them pass, then follows Tifa across the bridge.
Later... Young Tifa and Cloud lie on the ground, having fallen from the mountain.
Tifa's father and another man run up to the pair. The other man gathers Tifa while Tifa's father stands over Cloud shaking a finger.
He and the other man walk off, leaving Cloud behind.
Fade to black.
They return to the nexus.
Cloud runs off to the gates of Nibelheim and Tifa follows.
They run through Nibelheim. Tifa stops as they pass Cloud's house.
* Note: At this point, Cloud's dialogue boxes are labeled with his name again.
Inside the reactor, Tifa is attacking Sephiroth. He cuts her, and she flies back down the stairs just as the black-haired SOLDIER runs in.
The door opens into Jenova's chamber, and Sephiroth goes inside.
Zack runs after Sephiroth.
Zack flies back out of Jenova's chamber. He lands on one of the pods and doesn't move.
A masked soldier runs in and takes Zack's sword. He runs up the steps into the Jenova chamber and on up the tube towards Sephiroth. Sephiroth turns around just as Cloud stabs him.
After backing down from Jenova, the soldier pulls off his mask to reveal Cloud beneath it.
The scene changes to show the party stopping to look at the Mako fountain on Mt. Nibel, the masked soldier standing behind Tifa.
Outside the Mako reactor, the soldier blocks Tifa from entering.
The scene cuts to the truck heading for Nibelheim. Rain pounds outside.
Entering Nibelheim, Cloud sees Tifa, and turns away to put his mask back on. Zack looks at him sympathetically. Tifa stands up, and not seeing Cloud, she shakes her head and runs away.
While Nibelheim is burning, the soldier lying on the ground outside Cloud's house twitches and struggles to get up.
At the reactor, Cloud runs back down from Jenova's chamber to help Tifa.
Sephiroth comes out of Jenova's chamber, sword in one hand, Jenova's head in the other.
He limps down the stairs, pauses to look at Jenova's head, and continues out of the room. Cloud gets up and starts after him.
Cloud runs off, confronting Sephiroth on the bridge over the Mako pit.
Sephiroth turns and impales him on the Masamune.
He lifts Cloud on the sword. Cloud looks down and grabs the end of the blade.
Cloud manages to get his feet back on the bridge, lifts up Sephiroth, and flings him aside into the Mako pit.
Cloud and Tifa return to the nexus.
All the Clouds get to their feet.
The Clouds meet in the center of the nexus and join one by one. Finally, the writhing Cloud comes down from above to join them. A single Cloud falls to the ground, and Tifa crouches next to him.
They both get to their feet.
Cloud collapses again, clutching his head.
Together they swim upward out of the Lifestream.
Tifa comes to just outside what used to be Mideel. Everyone is gathered around her and Cloud.
Tifa lies back.
Back on the Highwind, everyone is gathered in the Operations Room.
Cloud scratches his head.
Everyone laughs and runs out, Barret chasing after them, leaving Cloud behind.
Cloud turns for the door.
On the bridge...
If you have a chocobo on board...
Going back to Mideel in ruins...
Cloud and the others arrive at lower Junon.
Cloud takes the elevator to Upper Junon.
Cloud runs outside to the airport.
Cloud leaves the base and starts down the street, then stops and turns to his companions. Behind them, the Junon cannon is no longer visible.
Cloud and the others continue on. On the path to the reactor, they come across a commander drilling his soldiers.
The soldiers all charge in the opposite direction.
The commander runs after them. At the end of the path, Cloud gets on an elevator with two soldiers and a redhead.
Cloud defeats both of them.
The elevator reaches the lower floor, and another pair of soldiers appears outside it to fight them.
Cloud and the others continue on, go down another elevator, and pass through the underwater pipe to the reactor. They cross a catwalk above the submarine dock and fight their way through the reactor.
Cloud and the others reach where the Huge Materia is stored.
They watch as a machine arm reaches down and removes the Huge Materia.
They run to the submarine dock. Reno is standing with his back to them, supervising.
He watches as the Huge Materia is lowered into the red submarine.
He runs off, leaving Cloud and the others to fight the Carry Armor roboguard. After the battle, they find the red sub has already left.
If Cloud tries to leave the submarine dock instead...
They run for the other submarine, and the soldiers just outside it turn frantic.
They defeat the soldiers and board the submarine.
They fight off these soldiers, too.
They enter the bridge.
The soldiers move aside to let Cloud and the others into the control room.
Cloud crouches down, wringing his hands. Yuffie doesn't look any better off.
One of the others goes up to the control panel and presses a button.
Cloud gets up.
Cloud sits down.
Once Cloud starts the mission:
Cloud shrugs.
Cloud and the others get on with the mission and chase the red leader submarine.
If they successfully shoot down the red leader submarine...
If Cloud's submarine is shot down or they run out of time...
They hurry from the control room.
Fade to black as they run towards the torpedo bay. Cloud comes to on the Junon beach with an old man nearby and Mr. Dolphin splashing him with its tail. The old man runs back into the village, and Cloud sits up.
The party can now return to the Underwater Reactor, but taking the earlier path through the underwater pipe leads to a locked door. Instead, Cloud talks to a pair of soldiers guarding a door near the entrance with a dog.
Cloud and the others fight and defeat the soldiers, but the dog remains.
The dog runs through the door, and Cloud gives chase out onto a submarine dock.
The dog whimpers and runs away.
The dog whimpers and runs onto the submarine.
Cloud and the others board the submarine.
If you try to leave the submarine...
If the dog came aboard, it will be waiting outside the bridge. Cloud continues to the bridge to find the captain and two more soldiers.
The soldiers nod and step aside.
Cloud and the others fight the soldiers.
Cloud hops into the driver's seat.
They return to the surface and dock the submarine outside Junon. They hurry back to Junon.
They take the elevator to Upper Junon.
Cloud arrives at the airport only to watch the Gelnika take off from Junon.
Cloud and the others leave Junon.
If they successfully shot down the red leader sub, they can now search the ocean floor for it.
They may also come across the sunken Gelnika. Cloud and the others board it.
They enter a side room.
In the hallway, they encounter Reno and Rude.
Cloud and the others fight the Turks.
They enter the room beyond.
Cloud and the others salvage what they can from the cargo room and return to the submarine.
If they continue exploring the ocean floor, it is possible to find the Key to Ancients before it becomes plot relevant.
Back on the Highwind...
Cloud and the others arrive at Rocket Town.
Inside the inn...
Back outside...
Inside the house on the right, if Cid is in the party...
Cid kicks him, and the old man falls over.
* Note: These "puns" are also extremely terrible in the Japanese. Rather than translate the meaning, the English script attempts to reproduce the approximate level of "this word sounds vaguely like this other word," although the pocket meat joke manages to be similar. How we got to "lathers Tantrics" though is anyone's guess.
Cloud heads for the rocket. Below, a couple stands watching.
Cloud and the others fight off the first two soldiers and run up the stairs.
They fight off a second set of soldiers.
They fight off the last of the soldiers outside of the rocket.
If Cid is not in the party...
Cid runs up the steps to join Cloud.
If Cid is in the party...
If Cloud attempts to leave the launchpad...
The couple still stands watching below.
They continue up the ladder to the rocket and encounter Rude of the Turks.
They fight and defeat Rude, who collapses on the walkway.
Cloud and the others enter the rocket.
They fight off the commander.
They continue into the cockpit, where Cid's old crew is preparing for the launch.
Cloud turns to the other party member and shrugs.
They all run out.
The rocket starts shaking.
The rocket blasts off from the launch pad and into space.
If Cloud moves to leave the cockpit without getting the Huge Materia...
Cloud has the option of climbing the ladder to where the Huge Materia is kept.
If Cloud inputs the correct code on the first try...
If Cloud inputs the wrong code on the first try...
If Cloud inputs the correct code before the time runs out...
If they fail...
Cloud and the others make for the escape pod. As they pass through the engine room, one of the oxygen tanks explodes.
Cloud and the other party member move to lift the debris.
The door opens.
With Shera's help, they manage to free Cid, and she leads them towards the escape pod.
They follow Shera to the pod.
They detach in the escape pod.
The rocket goes on to crash into Meteor. People watch from all over the world. The explosion is blinding, but afterwards, Meteor remains, barely harmed at all. The people watching from Midgar react with despair.
Back on the Highwind...
Cid scratches his head and sits down.
The others shake their heads and disperse.
They hear the Planet's screaming.
On returning to Rocket Town afterwards...
Inside the inn...
Inside a house...
In the Item Shop...
Back outside...
Inside the house on the right, if you heard the old man's joke earlier...
Cid's house...
If Cloud returns to Midgar, there is a person standing outside the gate to Sector 5.
Cloud can dig for and obtain the key up in Bone Village. He can then return and enter Sector 5. In Aeris's church, two kids stand near the flower bed...
Elsewhere in Sector 5...
Inside a house...
Sector 6, Wall Market. A soldier stands guard outside the Honey Bee Inn...
Inside the automated item store, if Cid and Tifa are in the party...
Tifa presses a button on the machine, and a bright light flashes red.
Elsewhere...
Inside the gym...
In the Weapons Shop...
At Kalm...
Inside the second house...
At Lower Junon...
In Upper Junon...
At Costa del Sol...
Johnny's House...
At North Corel...
At the ropeway station...
At Gold Saucer...
Occasionally, a man will appear standing by the house in back of the ropeway.
At Chocobo Square...
If you don't have any chocobos stabled...
Otherwise:
Cloud selects a chocobo.
Occasionally, Tifa or Cid may interject here:
If Cloud wins...
If Cloud loses...
Nothing happens.
At Ghost Square...
At Battle Square...
By this point, Cloud may be able to access the special duel at the Battle Arena.
At Round Square...
At Speed Square...
At Wonder Square, there is now only a single chocobo mascot, and fewer people playing games...
Sometimes when playing the Snowboarding game, Cid or Tifa will speak up.
At Gongaga...
Returning to the City of the Ancients and approaching the crystal in the viewing chamber...
In Great Glacier...
If Cloud attempts to go to the cliffs, Holzoff comes running out of his house.
While roaming the ocean in the submarine, Cloud and the others come across a deep lake beneath a waterfall. Behind the waterfall is a large cave with a glowing altar.
If Vincent is not in the party, Lucrecia's voice will randomly say one name or the other...
The altar is vacant, and Cloud turns to go.
Returning with Vincent in the party, Lucrecia will randomly say one name or the other...
Lucrecia is standing at the altar, and she turns on hearing his voice.
There follows a sequence of flashbacks, set in Nibelheim:
Scene one: Vincent, as a Turk, and three scientists (Gast, Hojo, and Lucrecia) walk into the Shinra mansion. Vincent pauses near the gate to look up at the sky.
Scene two: Vincent and Lucrecia are talking to each other as they walk through Nibelheim.
Scene three: At Nibelheim's gate, Vincent is holding both of Lucrecia's hands in his. She breaks away and runs off out of town.
Scene four: Beneath the same gate, Lucrecia is in Hojo's arms, and Vincent is watching. He turns away, sighs, then runs off.
Scene five: Lucrecia is sitting in a chair at the inn, stroking her belly.
Scene six: Hojo, Lucrecia, and Vincent stand in the basement laboratory.
Lucrecia lowers her head.
Scene seven: Lucrecia collapses on the floor in the inn.
	Scene eight: Vincent runs down to the basement laboratory, making angry gestures at Hojo. Hojo runs his hands through his hair, then shoots Vincent, who crumples to the floor.
	Scene nine: Hojo stands over Vincent at the basement's operating table.
	Scene ten: Vincent gets up from the table and looks at his hands.
Vincent starts forward.
Cloud starts forward, but Vincent holds out an arm to silence him.
They leave the cave.
If they return again later, Lucrecia is gone, but something has been left behind on the altar.
Cloud and his party arrive at Cosmo Canyon and go up to the observatory to see Bugenhagen.
Cloud nods and calls up the others on his PHS. They all gather in the observatory.
The others all file out ahead of Cloud and Bugenhagen.
The machine turns on, raising the platform into the planetarium. The Huge Materia Cloud has collected now hover amidst the model of the solar system.
On approaching the green Huge Materia:
On approaching the yellow Huge Materia:
On approaching the red Huge Materia:
On approaching the blue Huge Materia:
Once Cloud decides to go back down...
Back on the Highwind, Bugenhagen hovers outside the Operation room.
Cloud and the others set out for the City of the Ancients.
If you speak to some of the villagers while Bugenhagen is with the party...
Cloud and the others take Bugenhagen into the City of the Ancients and to the viewing chamber with the large crystal platform.
Bugenhagen floats up to the platform in the center of the room. Cloud joins him.
If you don't have the Key...
Cloud nods.
Cloud leaves the city to look for the key. Back on the Highwind...
If the party returns to the City of the Ancients, Bugenhagen will offer them new insights.
On visiting again...
Searching in the submarine, they find it in an underwater tunnel in the north.
They return to the City of the Ancients.
If you've already obtained the Key...
Bugenhagen puts the key in the music box, a tune plays, and a waterfall crashes down over the center platform. Bugenhagen rejoins the others just outside the waterfall.
Cloud and the others pass through the waterfall to look.
They watch as the screen shows the White Materia at Aeris's death. After it drops into the water, it begins to glow green.
Cloud looks at his companions and nods.
Cloud turns to go. If Cait Sith is in the party, he stops them with an exclamation. Otherwise, Cloud's PHS rings. Cloud responds to both with "What the?" and the rest of the conversation proceeds identically.
Cut to Midgar, where the Sister Ray has been set up extending from Shinra Headquarters. In the President's office, the executives are gathered...
Cloud and the others leave the City of the Ancients, but before getting on the Highwind, Cloud turns.
From the sea just south of Bone Village, Diamond Weapon rises and begins walking south towards Midgar. Back on the Highwind, red lights flash.
Cloud and the others head for Midgar.
If, in following Diamond Weapon, the Highwind rams into it...
They reach and fight Diamond Weapon some miles outside of Midgar, but cannot defeat it. It turns towards Midgar, leaving them behind.
The others run out. If Cait Sith is in the party, he hangs back with Cloud.
Otherwise, Cloud's PHS rings.
Meanwhile at Shinra Headquarters, Rufus now stands alone in his office.
Drawing power from all of Midgar's reactors, the Sister Ray fires a shot northward. The glass on the Shinra building shatters. Diamond Weapon fires a salvo back at Midgar. On the deck of the Highwind, Cloud and the others stand watching.
The shot from the Sister Ray goes right through Diamond Weapon as the Highwind flies past. The Weapon flies back.
The shot continues on to the Northern Crater and slams into Sephiroth's barrier, destroying it. Back at Shinra Headquarters...
Rufus turns and looks. In the street below, people are running away from the Shinra building.
Rufus stands in his office as the blast hits the upper floors of the Shinra building.
Back on the Highwind, Cloud and the others have returned to the bridge.
They fly to the Northern Crater, finding the barrier gone.
Cait Sith gives a sudden start.
Back at Shinra Headquarters, Reeve, Heidegger, and Scarlet stand in the conference room.
At the Sister Ray's controls...
Back on the Highwind...
At Shinra HQ...
Two Shinra soldiers run in to restrain Reeve. Scarlet and Heidegger leave the Conference Room.
Back on the Highwind...
Cid turns to the pilot.
They fly the Highwind back to Midgar.
Everyone runs from the bridge and gathers on the deck outside.
They all jump off the Highwind and parachute into Midgar, landing in 8th Street, Sector 8. Cait Sith approaches Cloud once he's landed.
Cloud joins the others around an entrance to the Sector 8 underground.
Cloud and the others make their way through the underground and reach the train tunnels. If Cloud travels backwards down the tunnel instead of ahead, he first comes across Barret.
Farther back, he encounters Nanaki at the branch marked 2.
Going back far enough, Cloud will reach the end of the tunnel, and the W-Item materia.
Going forward again, eventually the Turks will intercept Cloud.
Cloud and the others turn to face her.
Reno and Rude walk up from behind her.
If you completed the Wutai sidequest with Don Corneo, the dialogue continues. Otherwise, Cloud and the others will automatically enter a battle with all three Turks.
A battle ensues.
They flee.
Cloud and the others move on. At the first branch in the tunnel, they find Yuffie.
In the tunnel beyond, Tifa is crouched down on the tracks. She stands.
At the next branch is Cid.
Going left from here takes them to the Shinra building. As they approach the entrance...
It is possible to enter the Shinra building anyway, but it is empty of employees except for the 66th floor, which Cloud can only view from the stairwell.
On the 64th floor, if Cloud put money into the vending machine earlier...
Eventually Cloud and the others emerge into the streets of Sector 8 again, near the supports for the cannon. They start down the street, but the ground begins shaking, and they stop and look back.
A huge robot comes to a stop behind them and a hatch opens.
Heidegger and Scarlet step out onto the robot's hand.
They go back inside the hatch.
A battle ensues, and they defeat the Proud Clod.
The Proud Clod explodes.
It starts to rain, and Cloud and the others move on down the street and start up the stairs to the Sister Ray.
If Barret is in the party, there is a treasure chest on the stairs.
They climb to the top of the stairs and reach Hojo, who is working at the cannon's controls.
Hojo turns around.
Cloud and the others enter a battle with Hojo.
Hojo morphs into Helletic Hojo, and later into Lifeform Hojo. Cloud and the others manage to defeat him.
Everyone has gathered back on the bridge of the Highwind.
Everyone leaves, including the Highwind's crew, except for Tifa. Cloud turns to her.
Cloud and Tifa leave the airship and stand below in the twilight.
Depending on Cloud's actions throughout the game, the dialogue continues differently.
If Cloud has favored Tifa...
Cloud and Tifa spend the night on the ground beneath the airship, Tifa leaning against Cloud.
If Cloud hasn't favored Tifa as much...
Cloud and Tifa spend the night on the ground beneath the airship, Tifa leaning against Cloud.
Later, some time after the sun has risen, Tifa stands looking up at the Highwind.
Together they return to the Highwind.
Tifa nods. Suddenly the airship starts up.
They run to the bridge. Cait Sith stands motionless in the corner, and they find Cid and Barret at the helm.
Nanaki bounds up from the stairs.
She runs off, embarrassed. Cloud turns away, scratching his head, and notices Vincent arriving.
Everyone turns to look. Vincent turns away.
A light flashes red.
Yuffie drops down from the ceiling and shakes her fist at him.
Cid pulls the levers. Jets open up on the Highwind and it blasts off.
A warning sounds.
Cid's crew runs onto the deck and joins him at the helm.
In the living quarters next to the materia shop...
If Cloud visits the observatory without Nanaki, he finds Bugenhagen lying on the sofa.
If Nanaki is in the party, then once they enter the observatory, he runs ahead of the others.
Cloud holds out a hand to stop the other party member and shakes his head. They leave Nanaki alone with Bugenhagen.
He slumps back, and Nanaki jumps up, putting his forepaws on the sofa. Fade to black.
Cloud is waiting at the bonfire. He stands when Nanaki arrives.
Cloud shakes his head.
Returning to Tifa's house, if Cloud picks out the melody of FF7's main theme on her piano...
Tifa practices some moves, then stretches and nods to herself.
Entering the basement library of the Shinra mansion now triggers a flashback sequence...
Cloud and Zack are floating in the Mako tanks in the mansion's basement. A man approaches carrying something.
When he opens Zack's tank, Zack punches him and escapes. He opens the other tank, and Cloud falls to the floor in a pool of Mako. Zack retrieves the Buster Sword, then returns to help Cloud. He drags Cloud with him out through the gates of Nibelheim. Fade to black.
The scene fades in; Zack and Cloud, now both wearing SOLDIER uniforms, are riding in the back of an old truck. Zack raps on the window to the cab of the truck.
Zack shakes his head and sits back down beside Cloud.
Some time later, they come to a cliff, Zack dragging Cloud with him. Gunfire sounds from behind them, and Zack runs off-screen to fight the soldiers. After a moment he comes running back, stopping by Cloud. The soldiers shoot him and he flies back. They shoot him again until he lies still, then turn to Cloud.
They walk off, leaving Cloud behind. It starts to rain. Cloud crawls slowly over to Zack's body. He takes up the Buster Sword and raises his arms up to the sky. Beyond the cliff lies the city of Midgar.
At Kalm...
Inside the first house...
Inside the second house...
Back outside...
In the bar...
Inside the fourth house, if Cloud has the Guidebook from the Ghost Ship:
If Cloud has the Desert Rose from defeating Ruby Weapon:
If Cloud has the Earth Harp from defeating Emerald Weapon:
Depending on what items Cloud has traded him already...
Once Cloud has traded him all three items...
He walks out of the room.
In Upper Junon...
At Icicle Inn...
Cloud and the others reach the Northern Crater. On the Highwind...
Cloud strikes a pose.
Cloud heads out to the deck.
If Cloud leaves the Highwind and then returns:
Cloud and the others start down into the Northern Cavern.
They slide down and begin their descent into the crater. At length they come to a fork in the path.
The others split up according to Cloud's direction, and the characters not chosen for the party run off first.
If Cloud attempts to go down the path he didn't choose, he will stop and say:
Cloud and his chosen party head off down one path.
If they go left, they come to another fork.
They choose directions again, and those not chosen for the party run off first.
Cloud and his party continue on and at last reach a ledge very close to the bottom of the crater just ahead of the others. If he tries to go back up the other path...
Before Cloud can reach the very bottom, those sent down other paths appear.
Everyone gathers overlooking the final descent.
Each member of the group which went down the opposite path has had something for Cloud...
If at least one other party member accompanied Yuffie on the way down...
Cloud scratches his head.
There are growling and hissing noises from above them.
The growling gets louder.
Cloud and his chosen party begin the final descent into the Planet's core. After several battles, they reach another platform farther down and look around.
There is a screeching noise.
JenovaSYNTHESIS appears from below.
A battle with Jenova ensues. After they defeat her, the ground beneath them breaks apart and they fall downwards into a bright green light. The screen goes white. Cloud floats towards a bright white light pulsing in the darkness.
Everyone comes to on stone platforms surrounding a caged Holy, including those who stayed behind to hold off the monsters.
A pulse of energy goes through them all, lifting them into the air.
Sephiroth appears in front of Holy.
Another pulse of energy.
Another pulse.
A sharper pulse, and they all double over.
Another pulse, and Cloud stops writhing.
They prepare themselves for battle.
One final pulse.
They fight first BizarroSephiroth and then SaferSephiroth, and after a long battle, they emerge victorious. Everyone gathers again on the ledge above the final descent into the Planet's core.
They all start up the path, with Cloud and Tifa the last to go. A flash of white, and Cloud stops. Tifa turns back to him.
Another flash.
Cloud clutches his head.
Cloud's spirit appears to pull away as his body collapses. The screen goes white.
Cloud travels along a long tunnel to find Sephiroth waiting for him at the end of it. They duel one-on-one, and Cloud wins. Sephiroth, a shocked look on his face, dissolves into the Lifestream. The Lifestream then rises up and surrounds Cloud.
He holds out his hand, seeing a bare hand reaching down for him. But, once he comes to, he sees that it's Tifa's hand, and the ground is crumbling beneath his feet. The rock gives way beneath Tifa, but Cloud catches her and manages to grab hold of the ledge.
Tifa hesitates, and then she closes her eyes and leans her head against Cloud.
Cloud helps Tifa up to the ledge, and they pull themselves up.
They both turn to look at the ledge across from them, where the others are gathered.
As Cid looks up, his mouth drops open and his cigarette falls from it. Everyone looks up to watch the Highwind come crashing down, Lady Luck painted on its side. Once they are all on board, Holy bursts from the crater, propelling them ahead of it. The Highwind starts coming apart.
Cid reaches for an emergency lever and pulls it. The Highwind transforms into a plane and flies away from the crater.
Meanwhile, in a house in Kalm, Marlene looks up from where she is sitting at a table.
Going to the window, she looks west towards Midgar. Meteor is bearing down on the city, a violent storm beneath it tearing apart the upper plate. Holy rushes in from the north and forms a shield between Meteor and Midgar, but Meteor pushes through.
Back on the Highwind...
They stand around anxiously, watching helplessly. Suddenly, Tifa spots something.
They all turn to look as tendrils of the Lifestream come up out of the earth.
As more of the Lifestream comes up, the people of Kalm sense something and open up their windows to look.
The Lifestream converges on Midgar. A blinding light flashes over the Planet, and everyone flinches. And, somewhere, Aeris lifts her head and smiles.
Nanaki, his mane bedecked now with eight feathers, is running through a canyon with two cubs trailing behind him. He leads them up to the top of a rise, and the three of them look down upon Midgar, which is by now overrun with vibrant green vegetation.
